kubernetes/examples/spark/README.md, before:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->


<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

# Spark example

Following this example, you will create a functional [Apache
Spark](http://spark.apache.org/) cluster using Kubernetes and
[Docker](http://docker.io).

You will setup a Spark master service and a set of Spark workers using Spark's [standalone mode](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/spark-standalone.html).

For the impatient expert, jump straight to the [tl;dr](#tldr)
section.

### Sources

The Docker images are heavily based on https://github.com/mattf/docker-spark.
And are curated in https://github.com/kubernetes/application-images/tree/master/spark

## Step Zero: Prerequisites

This example assumes

- You have a Kubernetes cluster installed and running.
- That you have installed the ```kubectl``` command line tool somewhere in your path.
- That a spark-master service which spins up will be automatically discoverable by your kube DNS impl, as 'spark-master'

For details, you can look at the Dockerfiles in the Sources section.

## Step One: Create namespace

```sh
$ kubectl create -f examples/spark/namespace-spark-cluster.yaml
```

Now list all namespaces:

```sh
$ kubectl get namespaces
NAME          LABELS             STATUS
default       <none>             Active
spark-cluster name=spark-cluster Active
```

For kubectl client to work with namespace, we define one context and use it:

```sh
$ kubectl config set-context spark --namespace=spark-cluster --cluster=${CLUSTER_NAME} --user=${USER_NAME}
$ kubectl config use-context spark
```

You can view your cluster name and user name in kubernetes config at ~/.kube/config.

## Step Two: Start your Master service

The Master [service](../../docs/user-guide/services.md) is the master service
for a Spark cluster.

Use the
[`examples/spark/spark-master-controller.yaml`](spark-master-controller.yaml)
file to create a
[replication controller](../../docs/user-guide/replication-controller.md)
running the Spark Master service.

```console
$ kubectl create -f examples/spark/spark-master-controller.yaml
replicationcontroller "spark-master-controller" created
```

Then, use the
[`examples/spark/spark-master-service.yaml`](spark-master-service.yaml) file to
create a logical service endpoint that Spark workers can use to access the
Master pod.

```console
$ kubectl create -f examples/spark/spark-master-service.yaml
service "spark-master" created
```

You can then create a service for the Spark Master WebUI:

```console
$ kubectl create -f examples/spark/spark-webui.yaml
service "spark-webui" created
```

### Check to see if Master is running and accessible

```console
$ kubectl get pods
NAME                            READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
spark-master-controller-5u0q5   1/1       Running   0          8m
```

Check logs to see the status of the master. (Use the pod retrieved from the previous output.)

```sh
$ kubectl logs spark-master-controller-5u0q5
starting org.apache.spark.deploy.master.Master, logging to /opt/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/sbin/../logs/spark--org.apache.spark.deploy.master.Master-1-spark-master-controller-g0oao.out
Spark Command: /usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64/jre/bin/java -cp /opt/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/sbin/../conf/:/opt/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/lib/spark-assembly-1.5.1-hadoop2.6.0.jar:/opt/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/lib/datanucleus-rdbms-3.2.9.jar:/opt/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/lib/datanucleus-core-3.2.10.jar:/opt/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/lib/datanucleus-api-jdo-3.2.6.jar -Xms1g -Xmx1g org.apache.spark.deploy.master.Master --ip spark-master --port 7077 --webui-port 8080
========================================
15/10/27 21:25:05 INFO Master: Registered signal handlers for [TERM, HUP, INT]
15/10/27 21:25:05 INFO SecurityManager: Changing view acls to: root
15/10/27 21:25:05 INFO SecurityManager: Changing modify acls to: root
15/10/27 21:25:05 INFO SecurityManager: SecurityManager: authentication disabled; ui acls disabled; users with view permissions: Set(root); users with modify permissions: Set(root)
15/10/27 21:25:06 INFO Slf4jLogger: Slf4jLogger started
15/10/27 21:25:06 INFO Remoting: Starting remoting
15/10/27 21:25:06 INFO Remoting: Remoting started; listening on addresses :[akka.tcp://sparkMaster@spark-master:7077]
15/10/27 21:25:06 INFO Utils: Successfully started service 'sparkMaster' on port 7077.
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO Master: Starting Spark master at spark://spark-master:7077
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO Master: Running Spark version 1.5.1
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO Utils: Successfully started service 'MasterUI' on port 8080.
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO MasterWebUI: Started MasterWebUI at http://spark-master:8080
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO Utils: Successfully started service on port 6066.
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO StandaloneRestServer: Started REST server for submitting applications on port 6066
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO Master: I have been elected leader! New state: ALIVE
```

After you know the master is running, you can use the [cluster
proxy](../../docs/user-guide/accessing-the-cluster.md#using-kubectl-proxy) to
connect to the Spark WebUI:

```console
kubectl proxy --port=8001
```

At which point the UI will be available at
[http://localhost:8001/api/v1/proxy/namespaces/spark-cluster/services/spark-webui/](http://localhost:8001/api/v1/proxy/namespaces/default/services/spark-webui/).

## Step Three: Start your Spark workers

The Spark workers do the heavy lifting in a Spark cluster. They
provide execution resources and data cache capabilities for your
program.

The Spark workers need the Master service to be running.

Use the [`examples/spark/spark-worker-controller.yaml`](spark-worker-controller.yaml) file to create a
[replication controller](../../docs/user-guide/replication-controller.md) that manages the worker pods.

```console
$ kubectl create -f examples/spark/spark-worker-controller.yaml
replicationcontroller "spark-worker-controller" created
```

### Check to see if the workers are running

If you launched the Spark WebUI, your workers should just appear in the UI when
they're ready. (It may take a little bit to pull the images and launch the
pods.) You can also interrogate the status in the following way:

```console
$ kubectl get pods
NAME                            READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
spark-master-controller-5u0q5   1/1       Running   0          25m
spark-worker-controller-e8otp   1/1       Running   0          6m
spark-worker-controller-fiivl   1/1       Running   0          6m
spark-worker-controller-ytc7o   1/1       Running   0          6m

$ kubectl logs spark-master-controller-5u0q5
[...]
15/10/26 18:20:14 INFO Master: Registering worker 10.244.1.13:53567 with 2 cores, 6.3 GB RAM
15/10/26 18:20:14 INFO Master: Registering worker 10.244.2.7:46195 with 2 cores, 6.3 GB RAM
15/10/26 18:20:14 INFO Master: Registering worker 10.244.3.8:39926 with 2 cores, 6.3 GB RAM
```

Assuming you still have the `kubectl proxy` running from the previous section,
you should now see the workers in the UI as well. *Note:* The UI will have links
to worker Web UIs. The worker UI links do not work (the links will attempt to
connect to cluster IPs, which Kubernetes won't proxy automatically).

## Step Four: Start the Zeppelin UI to launch jobs on your Spark cluster

The Zeppelin UI pod can be used to launch jobs into the Spark cluster either via
a web notebook frontend or the traditional Spark command line. See
[Zeppelin](https://zeppelin.incubator.apache.org/) and
[Spark architecture](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/cluster-overview.html)
for more details.

```console
$ kubectl create -f examples/spark/zeppelin-controller.yaml
replicationcontroller "zeppelin-controller" created
```

Zeppelin needs the Master service to be running.

### Check to see if Zeppelin is running

```console
$ kubectl get pods -l component=zeppelin
NAME                        READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
zeppelin-controller-ja09s   1/1       Running   0          53s
```

## Step Five: Do something with the cluster

Now you have two choices, depending on your predilections. You can do something
graphical with the Spark cluster, or you can stay in the CLI.

### Do something fast with pyspark!

Use the kubectl exec to connect to the Zeppelin driver and run a pipeline.

```console
$ kubectl exec zeppelin-controller-ja09s -it pyspark
Python 2.7.9 (default, Mar  1 2015, 12:57:24)
[GCC 4.9.2] on linux2
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
Welcome to
      ____              __
     / __/__  ___ _____/ /__
    _\ \/ _ \/ _ `/ __/  '_/
   /__ / .__/\_,_/_/ /_/\_\   version 1.5.1
      /_/

Using Python version 2.7.9 (default, Mar  1 2015 12:57:24)
SparkContext available as sc, HiveContext available as sqlContext.
>>> sc.textFile("gs://dataflow-samples/shakespeare/*").map(lambda s: len(s.split())).sum()
939193
```

Congratulations, you just counted all of the words in all of the plays of
Shakespeare.

### Do something graphical and shiny!

Take the Zeppelin pod from above and port-forward the WebUI port:

```console
$ kubectl port-forward zeppelin-controller-ja09s 8080:8080
```

This forwards `localhost` 8080 to container port 8080. You can then find
Zeppelin at [https://localhost:8080/](https://localhost:8080/).

Create a "New Notebook". In there, type:

```
%pyspark
print sc.textFile("gs://dataflow-samples/shakespeare/*").map(lambda s: len(s.split())).sum()
```

## Result

You now have services and replication controllers for the Spark master, Spark
workers and Spark driver.  You can take this example to the next step and start
using the Apache Spark cluster you just created, see
[Spark documentation](https://spark.apache.org/documentation.html) for more
information.

## tl;dr

```console
kubectl create -f examples/spark
```

After it's setup:

```console
kubectl get pods # Make sure everything is running
kubectl proxy --port=8001 # Start an application proxy, if you want to see the Spark Master WebUI
kubectl get pods -lcomponent=zeppelin # Get the driver pod to interact with.
```

At which point the Master UI will be available at
[http://localhost:8001/api/v1/proxy/namespaces/spark-cluster/services/spark-webui/](http://localhost:8001/api/v1/proxy/namespaces/default/services/spark-webui/).

You can either interact with the Spark cluster the traditional `spark-shell` /
`spark-subsubmit` / `pyspark` commands by using `kubectl exec` against the
`zeppelin-controller` pod, or if you want to interact with Zeppelin:

```console
kubectl port-forward zeppelin-controller-abc123 8080:8080 &
```

Then visit [http://localhost:8080/](http://localhost:8080/).

## Known Issues With Spark

* This provides a Spark configuration that is restricted to the cluster network,
  meaning the Spark master is only available as a cluster service. If you need
  to submit jobs using external client other than Zeppelin or `spark-submit` on
  the `zeppelin` pod, you will need to provide a way for your clients to get to
  the
  [`examples/spark/spark-master-service.yaml`](spark-master-service.yaml). See
  [Services](../../docs/user-guide/services.md) for more information.

## Known Issues With Zeppelin

* The Zeppelin pod is large, so it may take a while to pull depending on your
  network. The size of the Zeppelin pod is something we're working on, see issue #17231.

* Zeppelin may take some time (about a minute) on this pipeline the first time
  you run it. It seems to take considerable time to load.

* On GKE, `kubectl port-forward` may not be stable over long periods of time. If
  you see Zeppelin go into `Disconnected` state (there will be a red dot on the
  top right as well), the `port-forward` probably failed and needs to be
  restarted. See #12179.



<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: IS_VERSIONED -->
<!-- TAG IS_VERSIONED -->
<!-- END MUNGE: IS_VERSIONED -->


<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/examples/spark/README.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->

Commit message:

kubernetes: Merge pull request #27218 from dchen1107/docker
Commit: 5b5c8076ccbc4babc7af6c7619a16d5a80b44ec2

kubernetes/examples/spark/README.md, after:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

<!-- BEGIN STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">

<h2>PLEASE NOTE: This document applies to the HEAD of the source tree</h2>

If you are using a released version of Kubernetes, you should
refer to the docs that go with that version.

<!-- TAG RELEASE_LINK, added by the munger automatically -->
<strong>
The latest release of this document can be found
[here](http://releases.k8s.io/release-1.2/examples/spark/README.md).

Documentation for other releases can be found at
[releases.k8s.io](http://releases.k8s.io).
</strong>
--

<!-- END STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

# Spark example

Following this example, you will create a functional [Apache
Spark](http://spark.apache.org/) cluster using Kubernetes and
[Docker](http://docker.io).

You will setup a Spark master service and a set of Spark workers using Spark's [standalone mode](http://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/spark-standalone.html).

For the impatient expert, jump straight to the [tl;dr](#tldr)
section.

### Sources

The Docker images are heavily based on https://github.com/mattf/docker-spark.
And are curated in https://github.com/kubernetes/application-images/tree/master/spark

## Step Zero: Prerequisites

This example assumes

- You have a Kubernetes cluster installed and running.
- That you have installed the ```kubectl``` command line tool somewhere in your path.
- That a spark-master service which spins up will be automatically discoverable by your kube DNS impl, as 'spark-master'

For details, you can look at the Dockerfiles in the Sources section.

## Step One: Create namespace

```sh
$ kubectl create -f examples/spark/namespace-spark-cluster.yaml
```

Now list all namespaces:

```sh
$ kubectl get namespaces
NAME          LABELS             STATUS
default       <none>             Active
spark-cluster name=spark-cluster Active
```

For kubectl client to work with namespace, we define one context and use it:

```sh
$ kubectl config set-context spark --namespace=spark-cluster --cluster=${CLUSTER_NAME} --user=${USER_NAME}
$ kubectl config use-context spark
```

You can view your cluster name and user name in kubernetes config at ~/.kube/config.

## Step Two: Start your Master service

The Master [service](../../docs/user-guide/services.md) is the master service
for a Spark cluster.

Use the
[`examples/spark/spark-master-controller.yaml`](spark-master-controller.yaml)
file to create a
[replication controller](../../docs/user-guide/replication-controller.md)
running the Spark Master service.

```console
$ kubectl create -f examples/spark/spark-master-controller.yaml
replicationcontroller "spark-master-controller" created
```

Then, use the
[`examples/spark/spark-master-service.yaml`](spark-master-service.yaml) file to
create a logical service endpoint that Spark workers can use to access the
Master pod.

```console
$ kubectl create -f examples/spark/spark-master-service.yaml
service "spark-master" created
```

You can then create a service for the Spark Master WebUI:

```console
$ kubectl create -f examples/spark/spark-webui.yaml
service "spark-webui" created
```

### Check to see if Master is running and accessible

```console
$ kubectl get pods
NAME                            READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
spark-master-controller-5u0q5   1/1       Running   0          8m
```

Check logs to see the status of the master. (Use the pod retrieved from the previous output.)

```sh
$ kubectl logs spark-master-controller-5u0q5
starting org.apache.spark.deploy.master.Master, logging to /opt/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/sbin/../logs/spark--org.apache.spark.deploy.master.Master-1-spark-master-controller-g0oao.out
Spark Command: /usr/lib/jvm/java-8-openjdk-amd64/jre/bin/java -cp /opt/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/sbin/../conf/:/opt/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/lib/spark-assembly-1.5.1-hadoop2.6.0.jar:/opt/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/lib/datanucleus-rdbms-3.2.9.jar:/opt/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/lib/datanucleus-core-3.2.10.jar:/opt/spark-1.5.1-bin-hadoop2.6/lib/datanucleus-api-jdo-3.2.6.jar -Xms1g -Xmx1g org.apache.spark.deploy.master.Master --ip spark-master --port 7077 --webui-port 8080
========================================
15/10/27 21:25:05 INFO Master: Registered signal handlers for [TERM, HUP, INT]
15/10/27 21:25:05 INFO SecurityManager: Changing view acls to: root
15/10/27 21:25:05 INFO SecurityManager: Changing modify acls to: root
15/10/27 21:25:05 INFO SecurityManager: SecurityManager: authentication disabled; ui acls disabled; users with view permissions: Set(root); users with modify permissions: Set(root)
15/10/27 21:25:06 INFO Slf4jLogger: Slf4jLogger started
15/10/27 21:25:06 INFO Remoting: Starting remoting
15/10/27 21:25:06 INFO Remoting: Remoting started; listening on addresses :[akka.tcp://sparkMaster@spark-master:7077]
15/10/27 21:25:06 INFO Utils: Successfully started service 'sparkMaster' on port 7077.
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO Master: Starting Spark master at spark://spark-master:7077
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO Master: Running Spark version 1.5.1
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO Utils: Successfully started service 'MasterUI' on port 8080.
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO MasterWebUI: Started MasterWebUI at http://spark-master:8080
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO Utils: Successfully started service on port 6066.
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO StandaloneRestServer: Started REST server for submitting applications on port 6066
15/10/27 21:25:07 INFO Master: I have been elected leader! New state: ALIVE
```

After you know the master is running, you can use the [cluster
proxy](../../docs/user-guide/accessing-the-cluster.md#using-kubectl-proxy) to
connect to the Spark WebUI:

```console
kubectl proxy --port=8001
```

At which point the UI will be available at
[http://localhost:8001/api/v1/proxy/namespaces/spark-cluster/services/spark-webui/](http://localhost:8001/api/v1/proxy/namespaces/default/services/spark-webui/).

## Step Three: Start your Spark workers

The Spark workers do the heavy lifting in a Spark cluster. They
provide execution resources and data cache capabilities for your
program.

The Spark workers need the Master service to be running.

Use the [`examples/spark/spark-worker-controller.yaml`](spark-worker-controller.yaml) file to create a
[replication controller](../../docs/user-guide/replication-controller.md) that manages the worker pods.

```console
$ kubectl create -f examples/spark/spark-worker-controller.yaml
replicationcontroller "spark-worker-controller" created
```

### Check to see if the workers are running

If you launched the Spark WebUI, your workers should just appear in the UI when
they're ready. (It may take a little bit to pull the images and launch the
pods.) You can also interrogate the status in the following way:

```console
$ kubectl get pods
NAME                            READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
spark-master-controller-5u0q5   1/1       Running   0          25m
spark-worker-controller-e8otp   1/1       Running   0          6m
spark-worker-controller-fiivl   1/1       Running   0          6m
spark-worker-controller-ytc7o   1/1       Running   0          6m

$ kubectl logs spark-master-controller-5u0q5
[...]
15/10/26 18:20:14 INFO Master: Registering worker 10.244.1.13:53567 with 2 cores, 6.3 GB RAM
15/10/26 18:20:14 INFO Master: Registering worker 10.244.2.7:46195 with 2 cores, 6.3 GB RAM
15/10/26 18:20:14 INFO Master: Registering worker 10.244.3.8:39926 with 2 cores, 6.3 GB RAM
```

Assuming you still have the `kubectl proxy` running from the previous section,
you should now see the workers in the UI as well. *Note:* The UI will have links
to worker Web UIs. The worker UI links do not work (the links will attempt to
connect to cluster IPs, which Kubernetes won't proxy automatically).

## Step Four: Start the Zeppelin UI to launch jobs on your Spark cluster

The Zeppelin UI pod can be used to launch jobs into the Spark cluster either via
a web notebook frontend or the traditional Spark command line. See
[Zeppelin](https://zeppelin.incubator.apache.org/) and
[Spark architecture](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/cluster-overview.html)
for more details.

```console
$ kubectl create -f examples/spark/zeppelin-controller.yaml
replicationcontroller "zeppelin-controller" created
```

Zeppelin needs the Master service to be running.

### Check to see if Zeppelin is running

```console
$ kubectl get pods -l component=zeppelin
NAME                        READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
zeppelin-controller-ja09s   1/1       Running   0          53s
```

## Step Five: Do something with the cluster

Now you have two choices, depending on your predilections. You can do something
graphical with the Spark cluster, or you can stay in the CLI.

### Do something fast with pyspark!

Use the kubectl exec to connect to the Zeppelin driver and run a pipeline.

```console
$ kubectl exec zeppelin-controller-ja09s -it pyspark
Python 2.7.9 (default, Mar  1 2015, 12:57:24)
[GCC 4.9.2] on linux2
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
Welcome to
      ____              __
     / __/__  ___ _____/ /__
    _\ \/ _ \/ _ `/ __/  '_/
   /__ / .__/\_,_/_/ /_/\_\   version 1.5.1
      /_/

Using Python version 2.7.9 (default, Mar  1 2015 12:57:24)
SparkContext available as sc, HiveContext available as sqlContext.
>>> sc.textFile("gs://dataflow-samples/shakespeare/*").map(lambda s: len(s.split())).sum()
939193
```

Congratulations, you just counted all of the words in all of the plays of
Shakespeare.

### Do something graphical and shiny!

Take the Zeppelin pod from above and port-forward the WebUI port:

```console
$ kubectl port-forward zeppelin-controller-ja09s 8080:8080
```

This forwards `localhost` 8080 to container port 8080. You can then find
Zeppelin at [https://localhost:8080/](https://localhost:8080/).

Create a "New Notebook". In there, type:

```
%pyspark
print sc.textFile("gs://dataflow-samples/shakespeare/*").map(lambda s: len(s.split())).sum()
```

## Result

You now have services and replication controllers for the Spark master, Spark
workers and Spark driver.  You can take this example to the next step and start
using the Apache Spark cluster you just created, see
[Spark documentation](https://spark.apache.org/documentation.html) for more
information.

## tl;dr

```console
kubectl create -f examples/spark
```

After it's setup:

```console
kubectl get pods # Make sure everything is running
kubectl proxy --port=8001 # Start an application proxy, if you want to see the Spark Master WebUI
kubectl get pods -lcomponent=zeppelin # Get the driver pod to interact with.
```

At which point the Master UI will be available at
[http://localhost:8001/api/v1/proxy/namespaces/spark-cluster/services/spark-webui/](http://localhost:8001/api/v1/proxy/namespaces/default/services/spark-webui/).

You can either interact with the Spark cluster the traditional `spark-shell` /
`spark-subsubmit` / `pyspark` commands by using `kubectl exec` against the
`zeppelin-controller` pod, or if you want to interact with Zeppelin:

```console
kubectl port-forward zeppelin-controller-abc123 8080:8080 &
```

Then visit [http://localhost:8080/](http://localhost:8080/).

## Known Issues With Spark

* This provides a Spark configuration that is restricted to the cluster network,
  meaning the Spark master is only available as a cluster service. If you need
  to submit jobs using external client other than Zeppelin or `spark-submit` on
  the `zeppelin` pod, you will need to provide a way for your clients to get to
  the
  [`examples/spark/spark-master-service.yaml`](spark-master-service.yaml). See
  [Services](../../docs/user-guide/services.md) for more information.

## Known Issues With Zeppelin

* The Zeppelin pod is large, so it may take a while to pull depending on your
  network. The size of the Zeppelin pod is something we're working on, see issue #17231.

* Zeppelin may take some time (about a minute) on this pipeline the first time
  you run it. It seems to take considerable time to load.

* On GKE, `kubectl port-forward` may not be stable over long periods of time. If
  you see Zeppelin go into `Disconnected` state (there will be a red dot on the
  top right as well), the `port-forward` probably failed and needs to be
  restarted. See #12179.

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/examples/spark/README.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
