freeCodeCamp/curriculum/challenges/english/02-javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/use-recursion-to-create-a-countdown.md, before:

---
id: 5cd9a70215d3c4e65518328f
title: Use Recursion to Create a Countdown
challengeType: 1
forumTopicId: 305925
dashedName: use-recursion-to-create-a-countdown
---

# --description--

In a <a href="/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/replace-loops-using-recursion" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">previous challenge</a>, you learned how to use recursion to replace a `for` loop. Now, let's look at a more complex function that returns an array of consecutive integers starting with `1` through the number passed to the function.

As mentioned in the previous challenge, there will be a <dfn>base case</dfn>. The base case tells the recursive function when it no longer needs to call itself. It is a simple case where the return value is already known. There will also be a <dfn>recursive call</dfn> which executes the original function with different arguments. If the function is written correctly, eventually the base case will be reached.

For example, say you want to write a recursive function that returns an array containing the numbers `1` through `n`. This function will need to accept an argument, `n`, representing the final number. Then it will need to call itself with progressively smaller values of `n` until it reaches `1`. You could write the function as follows:

```javascript
function countup(n) {
  if (n < 1) {
    return [];
  } else {
    const countArray = countup(n - 1);
    countArray.push(n);
    return countArray;
  }
}
console.log(countup(5));
```

The value `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]` will be displayed in the console.

At first, this seems counterintuitive since the value of `n` *decreases*, but the values in the final array are *increasing*. This happens because the push happens last, after the recursive call has returned. At the point where `n` is pushed into the array, `countup(n - 1)` has already been evaluated and returned `[1, 2, ..., n - 1]`.

# --instructions--

We have defined a function called `countdown` with one parameter (`n`). The function should use recursion to return an array containing the integers `n` through `1` based on the `n` parameter. If the function is called with a number less than 1, the function should return an empty array. For example, calling this function with `n = 5` should return the array `[5, 4, 3, 2, 1]`. Your function must use recursion by calling itself and must not use loops of any kind.

# --hints--

`countdown(-1)` should return an empty array.

```js
assert.isEmpty(countdown(-1));
```

`countdown(10)` should return `[10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1]`

```js
assert.deepStrictEqual(countdown(10), [10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1]);
```

`countdown(5)` should return `[5, 4, 3, 2, 1]`

```js
assert.deepStrictEqual(countdown(5), [5, 4, 3, 2, 1]);
```

Your code should not rely on any kind of loops (`for`, `while` or higher order functions such as `forEach`, `map`, `filter`, and `reduce`).

```js
assert(
  !code.match(/for|while|forEach|map|filter|reduce/g)
);
```

You should use recursion to solve this problem.

```js
assert(
  countdown.toString().match(/countdown\s*\(.+\)/)
);
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```js
// Only change code below this line
function countdown(n){
  return;
}
// Only change code above this line
```

# --solutions--

```js
function countdown(n){
   return n < 1 ? [] : [n].concat(countdown(n - 1));
}
```

Commit message:

freeCodeCamp: fix(curriculum): recursion challenges that abuse global space (#47680)
Commit: 4ab1dd89263e65c4d2168beeefc6d2f5650e1fcf

freeCodeCamp/curriculum/challenges/english/02-javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/use-recursion-to-create-a-countdown.md, after:

---
id: 5cd9a70215d3c4e65518328f
title: Use Recursion to Create a Countdown
challengeType: 1
forumTopicId: 305925
dashedName: use-recursion-to-create-a-countdown
---

# --description--

In a <a href="/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/basic-javascript/replace-loops-using-recursion" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">previous challenge</a>, you learned how to use recursion to replace a `for` loop. Now, let's look at a more complex function that returns an array of consecutive integers starting with `1` through the number passed to the function.

As mentioned in the previous challenge, there will be a <dfn>base case</dfn>. The base case tells the recursive function when it no longer needs to call itself. It is a simple case where the return value is already known. There will also be a <dfn>recursive call</dfn> which executes the original function with different arguments. If the function is written correctly, eventually the base case will be reached.

For example, say you want to write a recursive function that returns an array containing the numbers `1` through `n`. This function will need to accept an argument, `n`, representing the final number. Then it will need to call itself with progressively smaller values of `n` until it reaches `1`. You could write the function as follows:

```javascript
function countup(n) {
  if (n < 1) {
    return [];
  } else {
    const countArray = countup(n - 1);
    countArray.push(n);
    return countArray;
  }
}
console.log(countup(5));
```

The value `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]` will be displayed in the console.

At first, this seems counterintuitive since the value of `n` *decreases*, but the values in the final array are *increasing*. This happens because the push happens last, after the recursive call has returned. At the point where `n` is pushed into the array, `countup(n - 1)` has already been evaluated and returned `[1, 2, ..., n - 1]`.

# --instructions--

We have defined a function called `countdown` with one parameter (`n`). The function should use recursion to return an array containing the integers `n` through `1` based on the `n` parameter. If the function is called with a number less than 1, the function should return an empty array. For example, calling this function with `n = 5` should return the array `[5, 4, 3, 2, 1]`. Your function must use recursion by calling itself and must not use loops of any kind.

# --hints--

`countdown(-1)` should return an empty array.

```js
assert.isEmpty(countdown(-1));
```

`countdown(10)` should return `[10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1]`

```js
assert.deepStrictEqual(countdown(10), [10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1]);
```

`countdown(5)` should return `[5, 4, 3, 2, 1]`

```js
assert.deepStrictEqual(countdown(5), [5, 4, 3, 2, 1]);
```

Your code should not rely on any kind of loops (`for`, `while` or higher order functions such as `forEach`, `map`, `filter`, and `reduce`).

```js
assert(
  !code.match(/for|while|forEach|map|filter|reduce/g)
);
```

You should use recursion to solve this problem.

```js
assert(
  countdown.toString().match(/countdown\s*\(.+\)/)
);
```

Global variables should not be used to cache the array.

```js
countdown(1)
assert.deepStrictEqual(countdown(5), [5, 4, 3, 2, 1]);
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```js
// Only change code below this line
function countdown(n){
  return;
}
// Only change code above this line
```

# --solutions--

```js
function countdown(n){
   return n < 1 ? [] : [n].concat(countdown(n - 1));
}
```
