freeCodeCamp/curriculum/challenges/english/01-responsive-web-design/basic-css/give-a-background-color-to-a-div-element.english.md, before:

---
id: bad87fed1348bd9aede07836
title: Give a Background Color to a div Element
challengeType: 0
videoUrl: 'https://scrimba.com/c/cdRKMCk'
forumTopicId: 18190
---

## Description
<section id='description'>
You can set an element's background color with the <code>background-color</code> property.
For example, if you wanted an element's background color to be <code>green</code>, you'd put this within your <code>style</code> element:

```css
.green-background {
  background-color: green;
}
```

</section>

## Instructions
<section id='instructions'>
Create a class called <code>silver-background</code> with the <code>background-color</code> of silver. Assign this class to your <code>div</code> element.
</section>

## Tests
<section id='tests'>

```yml
tests:
  - text: Give your <code>div</code> element the class <code>silver-background</code>.
    testString: assert($("div").hasClass("silver-background"));
  - text: Your <code>div</code> element should have a silver background.
    testString: assert($("div").css("background-color") === "rgb(192, 192, 192)");
  - text: Define a class named <code>silver-background</code> within the <code>style</code> element and assign the value of <code>silver</code> to the <code>background-color</code> property.
    testString: assert(code.match(/\.silver-background\s*{\s*background-color:\s*silver;\s*}/));

```

</section>

## Challenge Seed
<section id='challengeSeed'>

<div id='html-seed'>

```html
<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Lobster" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<style>
  .red-text {
    color: red;
  }

  h2 {
    font-family: Lobster, monospace;
  }

  p {
    font-size: 16px;
    font-family: monospace;
  }

  .thick-green-border {
    border-color: green;
    border-width: 10px;
    border-style: solid;
    border-radius: 50%;
  }

  .smaller-image {
    width: 100px;
  }
</style>

<h2 class="red-text">CatPhotoApp</h2>
<main>
  <p class="red-text">Click here to view more <a href="#">cat photos</a>.</p>

  <a href="#"><img class="smaller-image thick-green-border" src="https://bit.ly/fcc-relaxing-cat" alt="A cute orange cat lying on its back."></a>

  <div>
    <p>Things cats love:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>cat nip</li>
      <li>laser pointers</li>
      <li>lasagna</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Top 3 things cats hate:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>flea treatment</li>
      <li>thunder</li>
      <li>other cats</li>
    </ol>
  </div>

  <form action="/submit-cat-photo">
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor" checked> Indoor</label>
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"> Outdoor</label><br>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality" checked> Loving</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Lazy</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Energetic</label><br>
    <input type="text" placeholder="cat photo URL" required>
    <button type="submit">Submit</button>
  </form>
</main>
```

</div>



</section>

## Solution
<section id='solution'>

```html
<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Lobster" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<style>
  .red-text {
    color: red;
  }

  h2 {
    font-family: Lobster, monospace;
  }

  p {
    font-size: 16px;
    font-family: monospace;
  }

  .thick-green-border {
    border-color: green;
    border-width: 10px;
    border-style: solid;
    border-radius: 50%;
  }

  .smaller-image {
    width: 100px;
  }

  .silver-background {
    background-color: silver;
  }
</style>

<h2 class="red-text">CatPhotoApp</h2>
<main>
  <p class="red-text">Click here to view more <a href="#">cat photos</a>.</p>

  <a href="#"><img class="smaller-image thick-green-border" src="https://bit.ly/fcc-relaxing-cat" alt="A cute orange cat lying on its back."></a>

  <div class="silver-background">
    <p>Things cats love:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>cat nip</li>
      <li>laser pointers</li>
      <li>lasagna</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Top 3 things cats hate:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>flea treatment</li>
      <li>thunder</li>
      <li>other cats</li>
    </ol>
  </div>

  <form action="/submit-cat-photo">
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor" checked> Indoor</label>
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"> Outdoor</label><br>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality" checked> Loving</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Lazy</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Energetic</label><br>
    <input type="text" placeholder="cat photo URL" required>
    <button type="submit">Submit</button>
  </form>
</main>
```

</section>

Commit message:

freeCodeCamp: fix(curriculum): changed challenge test text to use the word should for Responsive Web Design (#36860)
Commit: 9bf3fdbf382d04b958127299ccdb8e568321b4d6

freeCodeCamp/curriculum/challenges/english/01-responsive-web-design/basic-css/give-a-background-color-to-a-div-element.english.md, after:

---
id: bad87fed1348bd9aede07836
title: Give a Background Color to a div Element
challengeType: 0
videoUrl: 'https://scrimba.com/c/cdRKMCk'
forumTopicId: 18190
---

## Description
<section id='description'>
You can set an element's background color with the <code>background-color</code> property.
For example, if you wanted an element's background color to be <code>green</code>, you'd put this within your <code>style</code> element:

```css
.green-background {
  background-color: green;
}
```

</section>

## Instructions
<section id='instructions'>
Create a class called <code>silver-background</code> with the <code>background-color</code> of silver. Assign this class to your <code>div</code> element.
</section>

## Tests
<section id='tests'>

```yml
tests:
  - text: Your<code>div</code> element should have the class <code>silver-background</code>.
    testString: assert($("div").hasClass("silver-background"));
  - text: Your <code>div</code> element should have a silver background.
    testString: assert($("div").css("background-color") === "rgb(192, 192, 192)");
  - text: A class named <code>silver-background</code> should be defined within the <code>style</code> element and the value of <code>silver</code> should be assigned to the <code>background-color</code> property.
    testString: assert(code.match(/\.silver-background\s*{\s*background-color:\s*silver;\s*}/));

```

</section>

## Challenge Seed
<section id='challengeSeed'>

<div id='html-seed'>

```html
<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Lobster" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<style>
  .red-text {
    color: red;
  }

  h2 {
    font-family: Lobster, monospace;
  }

  p {
    font-size: 16px;
    font-family: monospace;
  }

  .thick-green-border {
    border-color: green;
    border-width: 10px;
    border-style: solid;
    border-radius: 50%;
  }

  .smaller-image {
    width: 100px;
  }
</style>

<h2 class="red-text">CatPhotoApp</h2>
<main>
  <p class="red-text">Click here to view more <a href="#">cat photos</a>.</p>

  <a href="#"><img class="smaller-image thick-green-border" src="https://bit.ly/fcc-relaxing-cat" alt="A cute orange cat lying on its back."></a>

  <div>
    <p>Things cats love:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>cat nip</li>
      <li>laser pointers</li>
      <li>lasagna</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Top 3 things cats hate:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>flea treatment</li>
      <li>thunder</li>
      <li>other cats</li>
    </ol>
  </div>

  <form action="/submit-cat-photo">
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor" checked> Indoor</label>
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"> Outdoor</label><br>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality" checked> Loving</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Lazy</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Energetic</label><br>
    <input type="text" placeholder="cat photo URL" required>
    <button type="submit">Submit</button>
  </form>
</main>
```

</div>



</section>

## Solution
<section id='solution'>

```html
<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Lobster" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<style>
  .red-text {
    color: red;
  }

  h2 {
    font-family: Lobster, monospace;
  }

  p {
    font-size: 16px;
    font-family: monospace;
  }

  .thick-green-border {
    border-color: green;
    border-width: 10px;
    border-style: solid;
    border-radius: 50%;
  }

  .smaller-image {
    width: 100px;
  }

  .silver-background {
    background-color: silver;
  }
</style>

<h2 class="red-text">CatPhotoApp</h2>
<main>
  <p class="red-text">Click here to view more <a href="#">cat photos</a>.</p>

  <a href="#"><img class="smaller-image thick-green-border" src="https://bit.ly/fcc-relaxing-cat" alt="A cute orange cat lying on its back."></a>

  <div class="silver-background">
    <p>Things cats love:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>cat nip</li>
      <li>laser pointers</li>
      <li>lasagna</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Top 3 things cats hate:</p>
    <ol>
      <li>flea treatment</li>
      <li>thunder</li>
      <li>other cats</li>
    </ol>
  </div>

  <form action="/submit-cat-photo">
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor" checked> Indoor</label>
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"> Outdoor</label><br>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality" checked> Loving</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Lazy</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Energetic</label><br>
    <input type="text" placeholder="cat photo URL" required>
    <button type="submit">Submit</button>
  </form>
</main>
```

</section>
