kubernetes/docs/design/admission_control.md, before:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->


<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

# Kubernetes Proposal - Admission Control

**Related PR:**

| Topic | Link |
| ----- | ---- |
| Separate validation from RESTStorage | http://issue.k8s.io/2977 |

## Background

High level goals:
* Enable an easy-to-use mechanism to provide admission control to cluster.
* Enable a provider to support multiple admission control strategies or author
their own.
* Ensure any rejected request can propagate errors back to the caller with why
the request failed.

Authorization via policy is focused on answering if a user is authorized to
perform an action.

Admission Control is focused on if the system will accept an authorized action.

Kubernetes may choose to dismiss an authorized action based on any number of
admission control strategies.

This proposal documents the basic design, and describes how any number of
admission control plug-ins could be injected.

Implementation of specific admission control strategies are handled in separate
documents.

## kube-apiserver

The kube-apiserver takes the following OPTIONAL arguments to enable admission
control:

| Option | Behavior |
| ------ | -------- |
| admission-control | Comma-delimited, ordered list of admission control choices to invoke prior to modifying or deleting an object. |
| admission-control-config-file | File with admission control configuration parameters to boot-strap plug-in. |

An **AdmissionControl** plug-in is an implementation of the following interface:

```go
package admission

// Attributes is an interface used by a plug-in to make an admission decision
// on a individual request.
type Attributes interface {
  GetNamespace() string
  GetKind() string
  GetOperation() string
  GetObject() runtime.Object
}

// Interface is an abstract, pluggable interface for Admission Control decisions.
type Interface interface {
  // Admit makes an admission decision based on the request attributes
  // An error is returned if it denies the request.
  Admit(a Attributes) (err error)
}
```

A **plug-in** must be compiled with the binary, and is registered as an
available option by providing a name, and implementation of admission.Interface.

```go
func init() {
  admission.RegisterPlugin("AlwaysDeny", func(client client.Interface, config io.Reader) (admission.Interface, error) { return NewAlwaysDeny(), nil })
}
```

Invocation of admission control is handled by the **APIServer** and not
individual **RESTStorage** implementations.

This design assumes that **Issue 297** is adopted, and as a consequence, the
general framework of the APIServer request/response flow will ensure the
following:

1. Incoming request
2. Authenticate user
3. Authorize user
4. If operation=create|update|delete|connect, then admission.Admit(requestAttributes)
   - invoke each admission.Interface object in sequence
5. Case on the operation:
   - If operation=create|update, then validate(object) and persist
   - If operation=delete, delete the object
   - If operation=connect, exec

If at any step, there is an error, the request is canceled.




<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: IS_VERSIONED -->
<!-- TAG IS_VERSIONED -->
<!-- END MUNGE: IS_VERSIONED -->


<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/docs/design/admission_control.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->

Commit message:

kubernetes: Merge pull request #27218 from dchen1107/docker
Commit: 5b5c8076ccbc4babc7af6c7619a16d5a80b44ec2

kubernetes/docs/design/admission_control.md, after:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

<!-- BEGIN STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">

<h2>PLEASE NOTE: This document applies to the HEAD of the source tree</h2>

If you are using a released version of Kubernetes, you should
refer to the docs that go with that version.

<!-- TAG RELEASE_LINK, added by the munger automatically -->
<strong>
The latest release of this document can be found
[here](http://releases.k8s.io/release-1.2/docs/design/admission_control.md).

Documentation for other releases can be found at
[releases.k8s.io](http://releases.k8s.io).
</strong>
--

<!-- END STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

# Kubernetes Proposal - Admission Control

**Related PR:**

| Topic | Link |
| ----- | ---- |
| Separate validation from RESTStorage | http://issue.k8s.io/2977 |

## Background

High level goals:
* Enable an easy-to-use mechanism to provide admission control to cluster.
* Enable a provider to support multiple admission control strategies or author
their own.
* Ensure any rejected request can propagate errors back to the caller with why
the request failed.

Authorization via policy is focused on answering if a user is authorized to
perform an action.

Admission Control is focused on if the system will accept an authorized action.

Kubernetes may choose to dismiss an authorized action based on any number of
admission control strategies.

This proposal documents the basic design, and describes how any number of
admission control plug-ins could be injected.

Implementation of specific admission control strategies are handled in separate
documents.

## kube-apiserver

The kube-apiserver takes the following OPTIONAL arguments to enable admission
control:

| Option | Behavior |
| ------ | -------- |
| admission-control | Comma-delimited, ordered list of admission control choices to invoke prior to modifying or deleting an object. |
| admission-control-config-file | File with admission control configuration parameters to boot-strap plug-in. |

An **AdmissionControl** plug-in is an implementation of the following interface:

```go
package admission

// Attributes is an interface used by a plug-in to make an admission decision
// on a individual request.
type Attributes interface {
  GetNamespace() string
  GetKind() string
  GetOperation() string
  GetObject() runtime.Object
}

// Interface is an abstract, pluggable interface for Admission Control decisions.
type Interface interface {
  // Admit makes an admission decision based on the request attributes
  // An error is returned if it denies the request.
  Admit(a Attributes) (err error)
}
```

A **plug-in** must be compiled with the binary, and is registered as an
available option by providing a name, and implementation of admission.Interface.

```go
func init() {
  admission.RegisterPlugin("AlwaysDeny", func(client client.Interface, config io.Reader) (admission.Interface, error) { return NewAlwaysDeny(), nil })
}
```

Invocation of admission control is handled by the **APIServer** and not
individual **RESTStorage** implementations.

This design assumes that **Issue 297** is adopted, and as a consequence, the
general framework of the APIServer request/response flow will ensure the
following:

1. Incoming request
2. Authenticate user
3. Authorize user
4. If operation=create|update|delete|connect, then admission.Admit(requestAttributes)
   - invoke each admission.Interface object in sequence
5. Case on the operation:
   - If operation=create|update, then validate(object) and persist
   - If operation=delete, delete the object
   - If operation=connect, exec

If at any step, there is an error, the request is canceled.


<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/docs/design/admission_control.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
