mongo/src/mongo/db/serverless/README.md, before:


# Serverless Internals

## Shard Split
A shard split is one of the serverless scaling primitives, allowing for scale out by migrating data for one or many tenants from an existing replica set to a newly formed replica set.

The following diagram illustrates the lifetime of a shard split operation:
![shard_split_diagram](../../../../docs/images/shard_split_diagram.png)

### Protocol
A shard is split by calling the `commitShardSplit` command, and is generally issued by a cloud component such as the atlasproxy. The shard split protocol consists of an exchange of messages between two shards: the donor and recipient. This exchange is orchestrated by the donor shard in a PrimaryOnlyService implementation, which has the following steps:

1. **Start the split operation**
The donor receives a `commitShardSplit` command with a `recipientSetName`, `recipientTagName`, and list of tenants that should be split into the recipient. The `recipientTagName` identifies recipient nodes in the donor config, and the `recipientSetName` is the setName for the recipient replica set.

	All active index builds for collections belonging to tenants which will be split are [aborted](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L649-L652) at the start of the split operation. All index builds for tenants being split will be blocked for the duration of the operation.

    Finally, the donor [reserves an oplog slot](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L926), called the `blockTimestamp`, after which all user requests for tenants being split will be blocked. It then durably records a state document update to the `kBlocking` state at the `blockTimestamp`, and enters the split critical section.

2. **Wait for recipient nodes to catch up**
Before proceeding with any split-specific steps, the donor must wait for all recipient nodes to catch up to the `blockTimestamp`. This wait is accomplished by calling [ReplicationCoordinator::awaitReplication with a custom tagged writeConcern](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L702), which targets nodes in the local config with the `recipientTagName`. Note that because of how replica set tags are implemented, each recipient node must have a different value for the `recipientTagName` ([learn more](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/tutorial/configure-replica-set-tag-sets/#std-label-configure-custom-write-concern)). Donor nodes are guaranteed to be caught up because we [wait for majority write](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/c2a1125bc0bb729acfec94a94be924b2bb65d128/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L663-L667) of the state document establishing the `blockTimestamp`.

4. **Applying the split**
    The donor then [prepares a "split config"](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L718-L730) which is a copy of the current config with recipient nodes removed, an increased version, and a new subdocument (`recipientConfig`) which contains the config recipient nodes will apply during split. The recipient config is a copy of the current config with donor nodes removed, recipient nodes reindexed from zero, a new set name. The donor then calls `replSetReconfig` on itself with the split config.

    Recipient nodes learn of the split config through heartbeats. When a recipient node sees a split config, it will first [wait for its oplog buffers to drain](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/repl/replication_coordinator_impl_heartbeat.cpp#L682). This guarantees that the `lastAppliedOpTime` reported by each node in their `hello` responses gives an accurate view of which node is furthest along in application.

    After draining, the recipient node will install the embedded recipient config. Once the config is successfully installed the recipient node will clear its <code>[lastCommittedOpTime and currentCommittedOpTime](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/repl/replication_coordinator_impl_heartbeat.cpp#L1065-L1066)</code> and [restart oplog application](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/repl/replication_coordinator_impl_heartbeat.cpp#L1068-L1070). We clear these two pieces of metadata to guarantee that recipient nodes never propagate opTimes from the donor timeline.

5. **Accepting the split**
    The donor [creates a ReplicaSetMonitor](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L561) at the beginning of a split operation in order to monitor recipient nodes for split acceptance. The primary criteria for split acceptance is that each recipient node reports the `recipientTagName`, however the split RSM will also [track the highest lastAppliedOpTime seen](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_utils.cpp#L329) for each recipient node so that we can later choose which node to elect as the recipient primary.

    Once all nodes have correctly reported the recipient set name the donor will [send a replSetStepUp command](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L850) to the node with the highest `lastAppliedOpTime`, guaranteeing that the election will succeed. After sending this command the donor will [wait for a majority write](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L856) on the recipient by sending an `appendOplogNote` command with a majority write concern to the new recipient primary. We need to ensure that the new primary’s first oplog entry is majority committed otherwise it’s possible for a node with an older `lastAppliedOpTime` to become elected, and cause the chosen recipient primary to rollback before its `lastAppliedOpTime`.

6. **Committing the split**
    Finally, the donor commits the split decision by performing an [update to its state document to the kCommitted state](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L869-L870). Users requests which were blocked will now be rejected with a `TenantMigrationCommitted` error, indicating that the sender should update its routing tables, and retry the request against the recipient.

### Error Handling
`commitShardSplit` will return [TenantMigrationCommitted](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_commands.cpp#L171-L173), [CommandFailed](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_commands.cpp#L166-L169), <code>[ConflictingServerlessOperation](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/serverless_operation_lock_registry.cpp#L52-L54)</code>, or any retryable errors encountered during the operation’s execution. On retryable error, callers are expected to retry the operation against the new donor primary. A ConflictingServerlessOperation <em>may </em>be retried, however the caller should do extra work to ensure the conflicting operation has completed before retrying.

### Access Blocking
During the critical section of a serverless operation the server will queue user requests for data involved in the operation, waiting to produce a response until after the critical section has completed. This process is called “blocking”, and the server provides this functionality by maintaining a [map of namespace to tenant access blocker](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/repl/tenant_migration_access_blocker_registry.h#L199). This registry is consulted when deciding to block:
* **reads** in the ServiceEntryPoint ([InvokeCommand::run](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/service_entry_point_common.cpp#L868), or [CheckoutSessionAndInvokeCommand::run](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/service_entry_point_common.cpp#L886))
* **linearizable reads** in the [RunCommandImpl::_epilogue](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/service_entry_point_common.cpp#L1226)
* **writes** in [OpObserverImpl::onBatchedWriteCommit](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/op_observer/op_observer_impl.cpp#L2107), [OpObserverImpl::onUnpreparedTransactionCommit](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/op_observer/op_observer_impl.cpp#L2036), and the [_logOpsInner oplog helper](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/repl/oplog.cpp#L384)
* **index builds** in [ReplIndexBuildState::tryAbort](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/repl_index_build_state.cpp#L351), IndexBuildsCoordinatorMongod::_startIndexBuild ([here](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/index_builds_coordinator_mongod.cpp#L200), [here](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/index_builds_coordinator_mongod.cpp#L275))

Access blockers are [installed](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L155-L161) on all nodes as soon as a split operation performs its first state transition to kAbortingIndexBuilds. They are initially configured to allow all reads and writes. When the donor primary transitions to the kBlocking state (entering the critical section) it first instructs its access blockers to begin [blocking writes](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L918), ensuring that no writes to tenant data can commit with a timestamp after the `blockTimestamp`.  We begin to block reads once the kBlocking state document [update is committed](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L201). Writes begin blocking on secondaries when the kBlocking state change is [committed on the secondary](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L195), this ensures that an access blocker is already installed and blocking writes if there is donor primary failover.

Access blockers are removed when the state document backing a shard split operation is [deleted](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L437). Since garbage collection of split operation state documents is [not immediate](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L1178-L1182), access blockers will continue to block reads and writes to tenant data for some time after the operation has completed its critical section. If the split operation is aborted, then access blockers will be removed as soon as the state document [records a decision and is marked garbage-collectable ](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L297-L304)(the `expireAt` field is set). Otherwise, access blockers will be removed when [the state document is deleted](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L435-L438). Access blockers are removed from recipient nodes [after installing the recipient config](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/repl/replication_coordinator_impl_heartbeat.cpp#L878-L887), they are no longer donors.  a

Access blockers may be removed in a few other scenarios:
* [When the shard split namespace is dropped](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L456)
* [When it fails to insert the initial state document](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L168-L169)

Access blockers are recovered
* On startup after the [local config is loaded](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/65154f6a1356de6ca09e04975a0acdfb1a0351ef/src/mongo/db/repl/replication_coordinator_impl.cpp#L537)
* After initial sync has completed in [InitialSyncer::_teardown](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/65154f6a1356de6ca09e04975a0acdfb1a0351ef/src/mongo/db/repl/initial_syncer.cpp#L580)
* On rollback during the [RollbackImpl::_runPhaseFromAbortToReconstructPreparedTxns](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/65154f6a1356de6ca09e04975a0acdfb1a0351ef/src/mongo/db/repl/rollback_impl.cpp#L655)

### Mutual Exclusion
Of the three types of serverless operation (tenant migration, shard merge, and shard split), no new operation may start if there are any active operations of another serverless operation type. Many operations may run concurrently as long as they are of the same serverless operation type.

This so-called “serverless operation lock” is acquired the first time a state document is inserted for a particular operation ([shard split](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L152-L153), [tenant migration donor](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/repl/tenant_migration_donor_op_observer.cpp#L58-L60), [tenant migration recipient](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/repl/tenant_migration_recipient_op_observer.cpp#L189-L191)). Once the lock is acquired, any attempt to insert a state document of a different operation type will [result in a ConflictingServerlessOperation](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/serverless_operation_lock_registry.cpp#L52-L54). The lock is released when an operation durably recorded its decision, and marked its state document as garbage collectable ([shard split](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L261-L263), [tenant migration donor](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/repl/tenant_migration_donor_op_observer.cpp#L169-L171), [tenant migration recipient](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/repl/tenant_migration_recipient_op_observer.cpp#L220-L222)). Serverless operation locks continue to be held even after a stepdown for the same reason access blockers do, if an election occurs later we ensure the lock is already held to prevent conflicting operations on the newly elected primary.

### Cleanup
Once a shard slit operation has completed it will return either [CommandFailed](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_commands.cpp#L166-L169) (if the operation was aborted for any reason), or [TenantMigrationCommitted](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_commands.cpp#L171-L173) (if the operation succeeded). At this point it is the caller’s responsibility to take any necessary post-operation actions (such as updating routing tables), before calling `forgetShardSplit` on the donor primary. Calling this command will cause the donor primary to mark the operation garbage-collectable, by [setting the expireAt field in the operation state document](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L1140-L1141) to a configurable timeout called `repl::shardSplitGarbageCollectionDelayMS` with a [default value of 15 minutes](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/repl/repl_server_parameters.idl#L688-L696).  The operation will wait for the delay and then [delete the state document](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L1186), which in turn removes access blockers installed for the operation. It is now the responsibility of the caller to remove orphaned data on the donor and recipient.

## Glossary
**recipient config**
The config for the recipient replica set.

**split config**
A config based on the original config which excludes the recipient nodes, and includes a recipient config in a subdocument.

**blockTimestamp**
Timestamp after which reads and writes are blocked on the donor replica set for all tenants involved until completion of the split.

Commit message:

mongo: SERVER-70842 Update shard split architecture guide
Commit: 6df7c6f17da7c86e144b8471072c5b9383c46263

mongo/src/mongo/db/serverless/README.md, after:


# Serverless Internals

## Shard Split
A shard split is one of the serverless scaling primitives, allowing for scale out by migrating data for one or many tenants from an existing replica set to a newly formed replica set.

The following diagram illustrates the lifetime of a shard split operation:
![shard_split_diagram](../../../../docs/images/shard_split_diagram.png)

### Protocol
A shard is split by calling the `commitShardSplit` command, and is generally issued by a cloud component such as the atlasproxy. The shard split protocol consists of an exchange of messages between two shards: the donor and recipient. This exchange is orchestrated by the donor shard in a PrimaryOnlyService implementation, which has the following steps:

1. **Start the split operation**
The donor receives a `commitShardSplit` command with a `recipientSetName`, `recipientTagName`, and list of tenants that should be split into the recipient. The `recipientTagName` identifies recipient nodes in the donor config, and the `recipientSetName` is the setName for the recipient replica set.

	All active index builds for collections belonging to tenants which will be split are [aborted](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L649-L652) at the start of the split operation. All index builds for tenants being split will be blocked for the duration of the operation.

    Finally, the donor [reserves an oplog slot](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L926), called the `blockTimestamp`, after which all user requests for tenants being split will be blocked. It then durably records a state document update to the `kBlocking` state at the `blockTimestamp`, and enters the split critical section.

2. **Wait for recipient nodes to catch up**
Before proceeding with any split-specific steps, the donor must wait for all recipient nodes to catch up to the `blockTimestamp`. This wait is accomplished by calling [ReplicationCoordinator::awaitReplication with a custom tagged writeConcern](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L702), which targets nodes in the local config with the `recipientTagName`. Note that because of how replica set tags are implemented, each recipient node must have a different value for the `recipientTagName` ([learn more](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/tutorial/configure-replica-set-tag-sets/#std-label-configure-custom-write-concern)). Donor nodes are guaranteed to be caught up because we [wait for majority write](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/c2a1125bc0bb729acfec94a94be924b2bb65d128/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L663-L667) of the state document establishing the `blockTimestamp`.

4. **Applying the split**
    The donor then [prepares a "split config"](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L718-L730) which is a copy of the current config with recipient nodes removed, an increased version, and a new subdocument (`recipientConfig`) which contains the config recipient nodes will apply during split. The recipient config is a copy of the current config with donor nodes removed, recipient nodes reindexed from zero, a new set name. The donor then calls `replSetReconfig` on itself with the split config.

    Recipient nodes learn of the split config through heartbeats. When a recipient node sees a split config, it will first [wait for its oplog buffers to drain](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/repl/replication_coordinator_impl_heartbeat.cpp#L682). This guarantees that the `lastAppliedOpTime` reported by each node in their `hello` responses gives an accurate view of which node is furthest along in application.

    After draining, the recipient node will install the embedded recipient config. Once the config is successfully installed the recipient node will clear its <code>[lastCommittedOpTime and currentCommittedOpTime](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/repl/replication_coordinator_impl_heartbeat.cpp#L1065-L1066)</code> and [restart oplog application](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/repl/replication_coordinator_impl_heartbeat.cpp#L1068-L1070). We clear these two pieces of metadata to guarantee that recipient nodes never propagate opTimes from the donor timeline.

5. **Accepting the split**
    The donor [creates one SingleServerDiscoveryMonitor per recipient node](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L561) at the beginning of a split operation in order to monitor recipient nodes for split acceptance. The primary criteria for split acceptance is that each recipient node reports the `recipientTagName`, however the split monitors will also [track the highest lastAppliedOpTime seen](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_utils.cpp#L329) for each recipient node so that we can later choose which node to elect as the recipient primary.

    Once all nodes have correctly reported the recipient set name the donor will [send a replSetStepUp command](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L850) to the node with the highest `lastAppliedOpTime`, guaranteeing that the election will succeed. After sending this command the donor will [wait for a majority write](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L856) on the recipient by sending an `appendOplogNote` command with a majority write concern to the new recipient primary. We need to ensure that the new primary’s first oplog entry is majority committed otherwise it’s possible for a node with an older `lastAppliedOpTime` to become elected, and cause the chosen recipient primary to rollback before its `lastAppliedOpTime`.

6. **Committing the split**
    Finally, the donor commits the split decision by performing an [update to its state document to the kCommitted state](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/646eed48d0da896588759030f2ec546ac6fbbd48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L869-L870). Users requests which were blocked will now be rejected with a `TenantMigrationCommitted` error, indicating that the sender should update its routing tables, and retry the request against the recipient.

### Error Handling
`commitShardSplit` will return [TenantMigrationCommitted](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_commands.cpp#L171-L173), [CommandFailed](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_commands.cpp#L166-L169), <code>[ConflictingServerlessOperation](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/serverless_operation_lock_registry.cpp#L52-L54)</code>, or any retryable errors encountered during the operation’s execution. On retryable error, callers are expected to retry the operation against the new donor primary. A ConflictingServerlessOperation <em>may </em>be retried, however the caller should do extra work to ensure the conflicting operation has completed before retrying.

### Access Blocking
During the critical section of a serverless operation the server will queue user requests for data involved in the operation, waiting to produce a response until after the critical section has completed. This process is called “blocking”, and the server provides this functionality by maintaining a [map of namespace to tenant access blocker](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/repl/tenant_migration_access_blocker_registry.h#L199). This registry is consulted when deciding to block:
* **reads** in the ServiceEntryPoint ([InvokeCommand::run](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/service_entry_point_common.cpp#L868), or [CheckoutSessionAndInvokeCommand::run](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/service_entry_point_common.cpp#L886))
* **linearizable reads** in the [RunCommandImpl::_epilogue](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/service_entry_point_common.cpp#L1226)
* **writes** in [OpObserverImpl::onBatchedWriteCommit](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/op_observer/op_observer_impl.cpp#L2107), [OpObserverImpl::onUnpreparedTransactionCommit](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/op_observer/op_observer_impl.cpp#L2036), and the [_logOpsInner oplog helper](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/repl/oplog.cpp#L384)
* **index builds** in [ReplIndexBuildState::tryAbort](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/repl_index_build_state.cpp#L351), IndexBuildsCoordinatorMongod::_startIndexBuild ([here](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/index_builds_coordinator_mongod.cpp#L200), [here](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/index_builds_coordinator_mongod.cpp#L275))

Access blockers are [installed](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L155-L161) on all nodes as soon as a split operation performs its first state transition to kAbortingIndexBuilds. They are initially configured to allow all reads and writes. When the donor primary transitions to the kBlocking state (entering the critical section) it first instructs its access blockers to begin [blocking writes](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L918), ensuring that no writes to tenant data can commit with a timestamp after the `blockTimestamp`.  We begin to block reads once the kBlocking state document [update is committed](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L201). Writes begin blocking on secondaries when the kBlocking state change is [committed on the secondary](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L195), this ensures that an access blocker is already installed and blocking writes if there is donor primary failover.

Access blockers are removed when the state document backing a shard split operation is [deleted](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L437). Since garbage collection of split operation state documents is [not immediate](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L1178-L1182), access blockers will continue to block reads and writes to tenant data for some time after the operation has completed its critical section. If the split operation is aborted, then access blockers will be removed as soon as the state document [records a decision and is marked garbage-collectable ](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L297-L304)(the `expireAt` field is set). Otherwise, access blockers will be removed when [the state document is deleted](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L435-L438). Access blockers are removed from recipient nodes [after installing the recipient config](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/e476ee17e9258f540d97a51baf471f5496488e33/src/mongo/db/repl/replication_coordinator_impl_heartbeat.cpp#L878-L887), they are no longer donors.  a

Access blockers may be removed in a few other scenarios:
* [When the shard split namespace is dropped](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L456)
* [When it fails to insert the initial state document](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/87b60722e3c5ddaf7bc73d1ba08b31b437ef4f48/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L168-L169)

Access blockers are recovered
* On startup after the [local config is loaded](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/65154f6a1356de6ca09e04975a0acdfb1a0351ef/src/mongo/db/repl/replication_coordinator_impl.cpp#L537)
* After initial sync has completed in [InitialSyncer::_teardown](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/65154f6a1356de6ca09e04975a0acdfb1a0351ef/src/mongo/db/repl/initial_syncer.cpp#L580)
* On rollback during the [RollbackImpl::_runPhaseFromAbortToReconstructPreparedTxns](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/65154f6a1356de6ca09e04975a0acdfb1a0351ef/src/mongo/db/repl/rollback_impl.cpp#L655)

### Mutual Exclusion
Of the three types of serverless operation (tenant migration, shard merge, and shard split), no new operation may start if there are any active operations of another serverless operation type. Many operations may run concurrently as long as they are of the same serverless operation type.

This so-called “serverless operation lock” is acquired the first time a state document is inserted for a particular operation ([shard split](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L152-L153), [tenant migration donor](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/repl/tenant_migration_donor_op_observer.cpp#L58-L60), [tenant migration recipient](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/repl/tenant_migration_recipient_op_observer.cpp#L189-L191)). Once the lock is acquired, any attempt to insert a state document of a different operation type will [result in a ConflictingServerlessOperation](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/serverless_operation_lock_registry.cpp#L52-L54). The lock is released when an operation durably recorded its decision, and marked its state document as garbage collectable ([shard split](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_op_observer.cpp#L261-L263), [tenant migration donor](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/repl/tenant_migration_donor_op_observer.cpp#L169-L171), [tenant migration recipient](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/repl/tenant_migration_recipient_op_observer.cpp#L220-L222)). Serverless operation locks continue to be held even after a stepdown for the same reason access blockers do, if an election occurs later we ensure the lock is already held to prevent conflicting operations on the newly elected primary.

### Cleanup
Once a shard slit operation has completed it will return either [CommandFailed](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_commands.cpp#L166-L169) (if the operation was aborted for any reason), or [TenantMigrationCommitted](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_commands.cpp#L171-L173) (if the operation succeeded). At this point it is the caller’s responsibility to take any necessary post-operation actions (such as updating routing tables), before calling `forgetShardSplit` on the donor primary. Calling this command will cause the donor primary to mark the operation garbage-collectable, by [setting the expireAt field in the operation state document](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L1140-L1141) to a configurable timeout called `repl::shardSplitGarbageCollectionDelayMS` with a [default value of 15 minutes](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/repl/repl_server_parameters.idl#L688-L696).  The operation will wait for the delay and then [delete the state document](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo/blob/1c4fafd4ae5c082f36a8af1442aa48174962b1b4/src/mongo/db/serverless/shard_split_donor_service.cpp#L1186), which in turn removes access blockers installed for the operation. It is now the responsibility of the caller to remove orphaned data on the donor and recipient.

## Glossary
**recipient config**
The config for the recipient replica set.

**split config**
A config based on the original config which excludes the recipient nodes, and includes a recipient config in a subdocument.

**blockTimestamp**
Timestamp after which reads and writes are blocked on the donor replica set for all tenants involved until completion of the split.
