# See https://github.com/sourcegraph/codenotify for documentation.

**/CODEOWNERS @nicksnyder

# API docs
#
# This is a top-level entry because API docs code is so mixed in with codeintel/LSIF code all over
# the repository-it's nice to have a complete list/overview of code related to API docs somewhere.
client/web/src/repo/docs/* @slimsag
cmd/frontend/graphqlbackend/codeintel_documentation.go @slimsag
lib/codeintel/lsif/protocol/documentation.go @slimsag
lib/codeintel/lsif/protocol/reader/unmarshal_documentation.go @slimsag
lib/codeintel/lsif/protocol/writer/emitter_documentation.go @slimsag
lib/codeintel/lsif/conversion/group_documentation.go @slimsag
lib/codeintel/lsif/conversion/correlate_documentation.go @slimsag
enterprise/internal/codeintel/stores/lsifstore/apidocs/* @slimsag
enterprise/internal/codeintel/stores/lsifstore/data_write_documentation.go @slimsag
enterprise/internal/codeintel/stores/lsifstore/documentation.go @slimsag
enterprise/internal/codeintel/stores/lsifstore/serializer_documentation.go @slimsag
enterprise/internal/codeintel/stores/lsifstore/documentation_janitor.go @slimsag
enterprise/internal/codeintel/stores/lsifstore/serializer_documentation_test.go @slimsag
enterprise/cmd/worker/internal/codeintel/janitor/documentation_search_current.go @slimsag
enterprise/cmd/frontend/internal/codeintel/resolvers/graphql/query_documentation.go @slimsag
enterprise/cmd/frontend/internal/codeintel/resolvers/query_documentation.go @slimsag
enterprise/cmd/frontend/internal/codeintel/resolvers/graphql/documentation.go @slimsag
enterprise/cmd/frontend/internal/codeintel/resolvers/documentation_query_references.go @slimsag
enterprise/cmd/frontend/internal/codeintel/resolvers/documentation_query_definitions.go @slimsag
