kubernetes/docs/design/clustering/README.md, before:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->


<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->
This directory contains diagrams for the clustering design doc.

This depends on the `seqdiag` [utility](http://blockdiag.com/en/seqdiag/index.html).
Assuming you have a non-borked python install, this should be installable with:

```sh
pip install seqdiag
```

Just call `make` to regenerate the diagrams.

## Building with Docker

If you are on a Mac or your pip install is messed up, you can easily build with
docker:

```sh
make docker
```

The first run will be slow but things should be fast after that.

To clean up the docker containers that are created (and other cruft that is left
around) you can run `make docker-clean`.

If you are using boot2docker and get warnings about clock skew (or if things
aren't building for some reason) then you can fix that up with
`make fix-clock-skew`.

## Automatically rebuild on file changes

If you have the fswatch utility installed, you can have it monitor the file
system and automatically rebuild when files have changed. Just do a
`make watch`.




<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: IS_VERSIONED -->
<!-- TAG IS_VERSIONED -->
<!-- END MUNGE: IS_VERSIONED -->


<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/docs/design/clustering/README.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->

Commit message:

kubernetes: Merge pull request #27218 from dchen1107/docker
Commit: 5b5c8076ccbc4babc7af6c7619a16d5a80b44ec2

kubernetes/docs/design/clustering/README.md, after:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

<!-- BEGIN STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">

<h2>PLEASE NOTE: This document applies to the HEAD of the source tree</h2>

If you are using a released version of Kubernetes, you should
refer to the docs that go with that version.

<!-- TAG RELEASE_LINK, added by the munger automatically -->
<strong>
The latest release of this document can be found
[here](http://releases.k8s.io/release-1.2/docs/design/clustering/README.md).

Documentation for other releases can be found at
[releases.k8s.io](http://releases.k8s.io).
</strong>
--

<!-- END STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->
This directory contains diagrams for the clustering design doc.

This depends on the `seqdiag` [utility](http://blockdiag.com/en/seqdiag/index.html).
Assuming you have a non-borked python install, this should be installable with:

```sh
pip install seqdiag
```

Just call `make` to regenerate the diagrams.

## Building with Docker

If you are on a Mac or your pip install is messed up, you can easily build with
docker:

```sh
make docker
```

The first run will be slow but things should be fast after that.

To clean up the docker containers that are created (and other cruft that is left
around) you can run `make docker-clean`.

If you are using boot2docker and get warnings about clock skew (or if things
aren't building for some reason) then you can fix that up with
`make fix-clock-skew`.

## Automatically rebuild on file changes

If you have the fswatch utility installed, you can have it monitor the file
system and automatically rebuild when files have changed. Just do a
`make watch`.


<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/docs/design/clustering/README.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
