grafana/docs/sources/alerting/alerting-rules/_index.md, before:

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/alerting-rules/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/old-alerting/create-alerts/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/rules/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/unified-alerting/alerting-rules/
title: Create and manage rules
weight: 130
---

# Create and manage Grafana Alerting rules

An alerting rule is a set of evaluation criteria that determines whether an alert will fire. The rule consists of one or more queries and expressions, a condition, the frequency of evaluation, and optionally, the duration over which the condition is met.

While queries and expressions select the data set to evaluate, a condition sets the threshold that an alert must meet or exceed to create an alert. An interval specifies how frequently an alerting rule is evaluated. Duration, when configured, indicates how long a condition must be met. The rules can also define alerting behavior in the absence of data.

You can:

- [Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed alert rule]({{< relref "create-mimir-loki-managed-rule/" >}})
- [Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed recording rule]({{< relref "create-mimir-loki-managed-recording-rule/" >}})
- [Edit Grafana Mimir or Loki rule groups and namespaces]({{< relref "edit-mimir-loki-namespace-group/" >}})
- [Create Grafana managed alert rule]({{< relref "create-grafana-managed-rule/" >}})
- [State and health of alerting rules]({{< relref "../fundamentals/state-and-health/" >}})
- [Manage alerting rules]({{< relref "rule-list/" >}})

Commit message:

grafana: Docs alerting: copy edit terraform provisioning (#55978) (#57068)
Commit: ecc252429e1392935de1b4a86768ade58837bdbc

grafana/docs/sources/alerting/alerting-rules/_index.md, after:

---
aliases:
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/alerting-rules/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/old-alerting/create-alerts/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/rules/
  - /docs/grafana/latest/alerting/unified-alerting/alerting-rules/
title: Create alert rules
weight: 130
---

# Create alert rules

An alert rule is a set of evaluation criteria that determines whether an alert will fire. The alert rule consists of one or more queries and expressions, a condition, the frequency of evaluation, and optionally, the duration over which the condition is met.

While queries and expressions select the data set to evaluate, a condition sets the threshold that an alert must meet or exceed to create an alert. An interval specifies how frequently an alert rule is evaluated. Duration, when configured, indicates how long a condition must be met. Alert rules can also define alerting behavior in the absence of data.

You can:

- [Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed alert rules]({{< relref "create-mimir-loki-managed-rule/" >}})
- [Create Grafana Mimir or Loki managed recording rules]({{< relref "create-mimir-loki-managed-recording-rule/" >}})
- [Edit Grafana Mimir or Loki rule groups and namespaces]({{< relref "edit-mimir-loki-namespace-group/" >}})
- [Create Grafana managed alert rules]({{< relref "create-grafana-managed-rule/" >}})
- [View the state and health of alert rules]({{< relref "../fundamentals/state-and-health/" >}})
- [View and filter alert rules]({{< relref "rule-list/" >}})

**Note:**
Grafana managed alert rules can only be edited or deleted by users with Edit permissions for the folder storing the rules.

Alert rules for an external Grafana Mimir or Loki instance can be edited or deleted by users with Editor or Admin roles.
