[role="xpack"]
[[transform-alerts]]
= Generating alerts for {transforms}

beta::[]

{kib} {alert-features} include support for {transform} rules, which check the 
health of {ctransforms} with certain conditions. If the conditions of the rule 
are met, an alert is created and the associated action is triggered. For 
example, you can create a rule to check if a {ctransform} is started and to 
notify you in an email if it is not. To learn more about {kib} {alert-features}, 
refer to 
{kibana-ref}/alerting-getting-started.html#alerting-getting-started[Alerting].

The following {transform} rules are available:

{transform-cap} health:: 
  Monitors {transforms} health and alerts if an operational issue occurred.


[[creating-transform-rules]]
== Creating a rule

You can create {transform} rules under **{stack-manage-app} > {rules-ui}**.

On the *Create rule* window, give a name to the rule and optionally provide 
tags. Specify the time interval for the rule to check {transform} health 
changes. You can also select a notification option with the _Notify_ selector. 
An alert remains active as long as the configured conditions are met during the 
check interval. When there is no matching condition in the next interval, the 
`Recovered` action group is invoked and the status of the alert changes to `OK`. 
For more details, refer to the documentation of 
{kibana-ref}/create-and-manage-rules.html#defining-rules-general-details[general rule details].

Select the {transform-cap} health rule type under the Stack Monitoring section.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/transform-rule.png["Creating a transform health rule"]


[[creating-transform-health-rules]]
=== {transform-cap} health

Select the {transform} or {transforms} to include. You can also use a special 
character (`*`) to apply the rule to all your {transforms}. {transforms-cap} 
created after the rule are automatically included.

The following health check is available and enabled by default:

_{transform-cap} is not started_:: 
  Notifies if the corresponding {transforms} is not started or it does not index 
  any data. The notification message recommends the necessary actions to solve 
  the error.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/transform-check-config.png["Selecting health check"]

As the last step in the rule creation process, 
<<defining-actions, define the actions>> that occur when the conditions
are met.
  

[[defining-actions]]
== Defining actions

Connect your rule to actions that use supported built-in integrations by 
selecting a connector type. Connectors are {kib} services or third-party 
integrations that perform an action when the rule conditions are met or the 
alert is recovered. You can select in which case the action will run.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/transform-alert-actions.png["Selecting connector type"]


For example, you can choose _Slack_ as a connector type and configure it to send 
a message to a channel you selected. You can also create an index connector that 
writes the JSON object you configure to a specific index. It's also possible to 
customize the notification messages. A list of variables is available to include 
in the message, like {transform} ID, description, {transform} state, and so on.

After you save the configurations, the rule appears in the *{rules-ui}* list 
where you can check its status and see the overview of its configuration 
information.

The name of an alert is always the same as the {transform} ID of the associated 
{transform} that triggered it. You can mute the notifications for a particular 
{transform} on the page of the rule that lists the individual alerts. You can 
open it via *{rules-ui}* by selecting the rule name.