grafana/docs/sources/auth/generic-oauth.md, before:

+++
title = "OAuth authentication"
description = "Grafana OAuthentication Guide "
keywords = ["grafana", "configuration", "documentation", "oauth"]
weight = 500
+++

# Generic OAuth Authentication

You can configure many different OAuth2 authentication services with Grafana using the generic OAuth2 feature. Examples:
- [Generic OAuth Authentication](#generic-oauth-authentication)
  - [Set up OAuth2 with Auth0](#set-up-oauth2-with-auth0)
  - [Set up OAuth2 with Bitbucket](#set-up-oauth2-with-bitbucket)
  - [Set up OAuth2 with Centrify](#set-up-oauth2-with-centrify)
  - [Set up OAuth2 with OneLogin](#set-up-oauth2-with-onelogin)
  - [JMESPath examples](#jmespath-examples)
    - [Role mapping](#role-mapping)

This callback URL must match the full HTTP address that you use in your browser to access Grafana, but with the suffixed path of `/login/generic_oauth`.

You may have to set the `root_url` option of `[server]` for the callback URL to be
correct. For example in case you are serving Grafana behind a proxy.

Example config:

```bash
[auth.generic_oauth]
enabled = true
client_id = YOUR_APP_CLIENT_ID
client_secret = YOUR_APP_CLIENT_SECRET
scopes =
auth_url =
token_url =
api_url =
allowed_domains = mycompany.com mycompany.org
allow_sign_up = true
tls_skip_verify_insecure = false
tls_client_cert =
tls_client_key =
tls_client_ca =
```

Set `api_url` to the resource that returns [OpenID UserInfo](https://connect2id.com/products/server/docs/api/userinfo) compatible information.

You can also specify the SSL/TLS configuration used by the client.
- Set `tls_client_cert` to the path of the certificate.
- Set `tls_client_key` to the path containing the key.
- Set `tls_client_ca` to the path containing a trusted certificate authority list.

`tls_skip_verify_insecure` controls whether a client verifies the server's certificate chain and host name. If it is true, then SSL/TLS accepts any certificate presented by the server and any host name in that certificate. _You should only use this for testing_, because this mode leaves SSL/TLS susceptible to man-in-the-middle attacks.

Grafana will attempt to determine the user's e-mail address by querying the OAuth provider as described below in the following order until an e-mail address is found:

1. Check for the presence of an e-mail address via the `email` field encoded in the OAuth `id_token` parameter.
1. Check for the presence of an e-mail address using the [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) specified via the `email_attribute_path` configuration option. The JSON used for the path lookup is the HTTP response obtained from querying the UserInfo endpoint specified via the `api_url` configuration option.
**Note**: Only available in Grafana v6.4+.
1. Check for the presence of an e-mail address in the `attributes` map encoded in the OAuth `id_token` parameter. By default Grafana will perform a lookup into the attributes map using the `email:primary` key, however, this is configurable and can be adjusted by using the `email_attribute_name` configuration option.
1. Query the `/emails` endpoint of the OAuth provider's API (configured with `api_url`) and check for the presence of an e-mail address marked as a primary address.
1. If no e-mail address is found in steps (1-4), then the e-mail address of the user is set to the empty string.

Grafana will also attempt to do role mapping through OAuth as described below.

> Only available in Grafana v6.5+.

Check for the presence of a role using the [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) specified via the `role_attribute_path` configuration option. The JSON used for the path lookup is the HTTP response obtained from querying the UserInfo endpoint specified via the `api_url` configuration option. The result after evaluating the `role_attribute_path` JMESPath expression needs to be a valid Grafana role, i.e. `Viewer`, `Editor` or `Admin`.

See [JMESPath examples](#jmespath-examples) for more information.

> Only available in Grafana v7.2+.

Customize user login using `login_attribute_path` configuration option. Order of operations is as follows:

1. Grafana evaluates the `login_attribute_path` JMESPath expression against the ID token.
1. If Grafana finds no value, then Grafana evaluates expression against the JSON data obtained from UserInfo endpoint. The UserInfo endpoint URL is specified in the `api_url` configuration option.

You can customize the attribute name used to extract the ID token from the returned OAuth token with the `id_token_attribute_name` option.

## Set up OAuth2 with Auth0

1. Create a new Client in Auth0
    - Name: Grafana
    - Type: Regular Web Application

1. Go to the Settings tab and set:
    - Allowed Callback URLs: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`

1. Click Save Changes, then use the values at the top of the page to configure Grafana:

    ```bash
    [auth.generic_oauth]
    enabled = true
    allow_sign_up = true
    team_ids =
    allowed_organizations =
    name = Auth0
    client_id = <client id>
    client_secret = <client secret>
    scopes = openid profile email
    auth_url = https://<domain>/authorize
    token_url = https://<domain>/oauth/token
    api_url = https://<domain>/userinfo
    ```

## Set up OAuth2 with Bitbucket

```bash
[auth.generic_oauth]
name = BitBucket
enabled = true
allow_sign_up = true
client_id = <client id>
client_secret = <client secret>
scopes = account email
auth_url = https://bitbucket.org/site/oauth2/authorize
token_url = https://bitbucket.org/site/oauth2/access_token
api_url = https://api.bitbucket.org/2.0/user
team_ids =
allowed_organizations =
```

## Set up OAuth2 with Centrify

1. Create a new Custom OpenID Connect application configuration in the Centrify dashboard.

1. Create a memorable unique Application ID, e.g. "grafana", "grafana_aws", etc.

1. Put in other basic configuration (name, description, logo, category)

1. On the Trust tab, generate a long password and put it into the OpenID Connect Client Secret field.

1. Put the URL to the front page of your Grafana instance into the "Resource Application URL" field.

1. Add an authorized Redirect URI like https://your-grafana-server/login/generic_oauth

1. Set up permissions, policies, etc. just like any other Centrify app

1. Configure Grafana as follows:

    ```bash
    [auth.generic_oauth]
    name = Centrify
    enabled = true
    allow_sign_up = true
    client_id = <OpenID Connect Client ID from Centrify>
    client_secret = <your generated OpenID Connect Client Secret"
    scopes = openid profile email
    auth_url = https://<your domain>.my.centrify.com/OAuth2/Authorize/<Application ID>
    token_url = https://<your domain>.my.centrify.com/OAuth2/Token/<Application ID>
    api_url = https://<your domain>.my.centrify.com/OAuth2/UserInfo/<Application ID>
    ```

## Set up OAuth2 with OneLogin

1. Create a new Custom Connector with the following settings:
    - Name: Grafana
    - Sign On Method: OpenID Connect
    - Redirect URI: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`
    - Signing Algorithm: RS256
    - Login URL: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`

    then:
1. Add an App to the Grafana Connector:
    - Display Name: Grafana

    then:
1. Under the SSO tab on the Grafana App details page you'll find the Client ID and Client Secret.

    Your OneLogin Domain will match the URL you use to access OneLogin.

    Configure Grafana as follows:

    ```bash
    [auth.generic_oauth]
    name = OneLogin
    enabled = true
    allow_sign_up = true
    client_id = <client id>
    client_secret = <client secret>
    scopes = openid email name
    auth_url = https://<onelogin domain>.onelogin.com/oidc/2/auth
    token_url = https://<onelogin domain>.onelogin.com/oidc/2/token
    api_url = https://<onelogin domain>.onelogin.com/oidc/2/me
    team_ids =
    allowed_organizations =
    ```

## JMESPath examples

To ease configuration of a proper JMESPath expression, you can test/evaluate expressions with custom payloads at http://jmespath.org/.

### Role mapping

**Basic example:**

In the following example user will get `Editor` as role when authenticating. The value of the property `role` will be the resulting role if the role is a proper Grafana role, i.e. `Viewer`, `Editor` or `Admin`.

Payload:
```json
{
    ...
    "role": "Editor",
    ...
}
```

Config:
```bash
role_attribute_path = role
```

**Advanced example:**

In the following example user will get `Admin` as role when authenticating since it has a group `admin`. If a user has a group `editor` it will get `Editor` as role, otherwise `Viewer`.

Payload:
```json
{
    ...
    "info": {
        ...
        "groups": [
            "engineer",
            "admin",
        ],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

Config:
```bash
role_attribute_path = contains(info.groups[*], 'admin') && 'Admin' || contains(info.groups[*], 'editor') && 'Editor' || 'Viewer'
```

Commit message:

grafana: OAuth: custom username docs (#28400)
Commit: b335a59d6d278166f5c125df92e3b78d0c098126

grafana/docs/sources/auth/generic-oauth.md, after:

+++
title = "OAuth authentication"
description = "Grafana OAuthentication Guide "
keywords = ["grafana", "configuration", "documentation", "oauth"]
weight = 500
+++

# Generic OAuth Authentication

You can configure many different OAuth2 authentication services with Grafana using the generic OAuth2 feature. Examples:
- [Generic OAuth Authentication](#generic-oauth-authentication)
  - [Set up OAuth2 with Auth0](#set-up-oauth2-with-auth0)
  - [Set up OAuth2 with Bitbucket](#set-up-oauth2-with-bitbucket)
  - [Set up OAuth2 with Centrify](#set-up-oauth2-with-centrify)
  - [Set up OAuth2 with OneLogin](#set-up-oauth2-with-onelogin)
  - [JMESPath examples](#jmespath-examples)
    - [Role mapping](#role-mapping)

This callback URL must match the full HTTP address that you use in your browser to access Grafana, but with the suffixed path of `/login/generic_oauth`.

You may have to set the `root_url` option of `[server]` for the callback URL to be
correct. For example in case you are serving Grafana behind a proxy.

Example config:

```bash
[auth.generic_oauth]
enabled = true
client_id = YOUR_APP_CLIENT_ID
client_secret = YOUR_APP_CLIENT_SECRET
scopes =
auth_url =
token_url =
api_url =
allowed_domains = mycompany.com mycompany.org
allow_sign_up = true
tls_skip_verify_insecure = false
tls_client_cert =
tls_client_key =
tls_client_ca =
```

Set `api_url` to the resource that returns [OpenID UserInfo](https://connect2id.com/products/server/docs/api/userinfo) compatible information.

You can also specify the SSL/TLS configuration used by the client.
- Set `tls_client_cert` to the path of the certificate.
- Set `tls_client_key` to the path containing the key.
- Set `tls_client_ca` to the path containing a trusted certificate authority list.

`tls_skip_verify_insecure` controls whether a client verifies the server's certificate chain and host name. If it is true, then SSL/TLS accepts any certificate presented by the server and any host name in that certificate. _You should only use this for testing_, because this mode leaves SSL/TLS susceptible to man-in-the-middle attacks.

Grafana will attempt to determine the user's e-mail address by querying the OAuth provider as described below in the following order until an e-mail address is found:

1. Check for the presence of an e-mail address via the `email` field encoded in the OAuth `id_token` parameter.
1. Check for the presence of an e-mail address using the [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) specified via the `email_attribute_path` configuration option. The JSON used for the path lookup is the HTTP response obtained from querying the UserInfo endpoint specified via the `api_url` configuration option.
**Note**: Only available in Grafana v6.4+.
1. Check for the presence of an e-mail address in the `attributes` map encoded in the OAuth `id_token` parameter. By default Grafana will perform a lookup into the attributes map using the `email:primary` key, however, this is configurable and can be adjusted by using the `email_attribute_name` configuration option.
1. Query the `/emails` endpoint of the OAuth provider's API (configured with `api_url`) and check for the presence of an e-mail address marked as a primary address.
1. If no e-mail address is found in steps (1-4), then the e-mail address of the user is set to the empty string.

Grafana will also attempt to do role mapping through OAuth as described below.

> Only available in Grafana v6.5+.

Check for the presence of a role using the [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/examples.html) specified via the `role_attribute_path` configuration option. The JSON used for the path lookup is the HTTP response obtained from querying the UserInfo endpoint specified via the `api_url` configuration option. The result after evaluating the `role_attribute_path` JMESPath expression needs to be a valid Grafana role, i.e. `Viewer`, `Editor` or `Admin`.

See [JMESPath examples](#jmespath-examples) for more information.

> Only available in Grafana v7.2+.

Customize user login using `login_attribute_path` configuration option. Order of operations is as follows:

1. Grafana evaluates the `login_attribute_path` JMESPath expression against the ID token.
1. If Grafana finds no value, then Grafana evaluates expression against the JSON data obtained from UserInfo endpoint. The UserInfo endpoint URL is specified in the `api_url` configuration option.

You can customize the attribute name used to extract the ID token from the returned OAuth token with the `id_token_attribute_name` option.

You can set the user's display name with JMESPath using the `name_attribute_path` configuration option. It operates the same way as the `login_attribute_path` option.

> **Note:** `name_attribute_path` is available in Grafana 7.4+.

## Set up OAuth2 with Auth0

1. Create a new Client in Auth0
    - Name: Grafana
    - Type: Regular Web Application

1. Go to the Settings tab and set:
    - Allowed Callback URLs: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`

1. Click Save Changes, then use the values at the top of the page to configure Grafana:

    ```bash
    [auth.generic_oauth]
    enabled = true
    allow_sign_up = true
    team_ids =
    allowed_organizations =
    name = Auth0
    client_id = <client id>
    client_secret = <client secret>
    scopes = openid profile email
    auth_url = https://<domain>/authorize
    token_url = https://<domain>/oauth/token
    api_url = https://<domain>/userinfo
    ```

## Set up OAuth2 with Bitbucket

```bash
[auth.generic_oauth]
name = BitBucket
enabled = true
allow_sign_up = true
client_id = <client id>
client_secret = <client secret>
scopes = account email
auth_url = https://bitbucket.org/site/oauth2/authorize
token_url = https://bitbucket.org/site/oauth2/access_token
api_url = https://api.bitbucket.org/2.0/user
team_ids =
allowed_organizations =
```

## Set up OAuth2 with Centrify

1. Create a new Custom OpenID Connect application configuration in the Centrify dashboard.

1. Create a memorable unique Application ID, e.g. "grafana", "grafana_aws", etc.

1. Put in other basic configuration (name, description, logo, category)

1. On the Trust tab, generate a long password and put it into the OpenID Connect Client Secret field.

1. Put the URL to the front page of your Grafana instance into the "Resource Application URL" field.

1. Add an authorized Redirect URI like https://your-grafana-server/login/generic_oauth

1. Set up permissions, policies, etc. just like any other Centrify app

1. Configure Grafana as follows:

    ```bash
    [auth.generic_oauth]
    name = Centrify
    enabled = true
    allow_sign_up = true
    client_id = <OpenID Connect Client ID from Centrify>
    client_secret = <your generated OpenID Connect Client Secret"
    scopes = openid profile email
    auth_url = https://<your domain>.my.centrify.com/OAuth2/Authorize/<Application ID>
    token_url = https://<your domain>.my.centrify.com/OAuth2/Token/<Application ID>
    api_url = https://<your domain>.my.centrify.com/OAuth2/UserInfo/<Application ID>
    ```

## Set up OAuth2 with OneLogin

1. Create a new Custom Connector with the following settings:
    - Name: Grafana
    - Sign On Method: OpenID Connect
    - Redirect URI: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`
    - Signing Algorithm: RS256
    - Login URL: `https://<grafana domain>/login/generic_oauth`

    then:
1. Add an App to the Grafana Connector:
    - Display Name: Grafana

    then:
1. Under the SSO tab on the Grafana App details page you'll find the Client ID and Client Secret.

    Your OneLogin Domain will match the URL you use to access OneLogin.

    Configure Grafana as follows:

    ```bash
    [auth.generic_oauth]
    name = OneLogin
    enabled = true
    allow_sign_up = true
    client_id = <client id>
    client_secret = <client secret>
    scopes = openid email name
    auth_url = https://<onelogin domain>.onelogin.com/oidc/2/auth
    token_url = https://<onelogin domain>.onelogin.com/oidc/2/token
    api_url = https://<onelogin domain>.onelogin.com/oidc/2/me
    team_ids =
    allowed_organizations =
    ```

## JMESPath examples

To ease configuration of a proper JMESPath expression, you can test/evaluate expressions with custom payloads at http://jmespath.org/.

### Role mapping

**Basic example:**

In the following example user will get `Editor` as role when authenticating. The value of the property `role` will be the resulting role if the role is a proper Grafana role, i.e. `Viewer`, `Editor` or `Admin`.

Payload:
```json
{
    ...
    "role": "Editor",
    ...
}
```

Config:
```bash
role_attribute_path = role
```

**Advanced example:**

In the following example user will get `Admin` as role when authenticating since it has a group `admin`. If a user has a group `editor` it will get `Editor` as role, otherwise `Viewer`.

Payload:
```json
{
    ...
    "info": {
        ...
        "groups": [
            "engineer",
            "admin",
        ],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

Config:
```bash
role_attribute_path = contains(info.groups[*], 'admin') && 'Admin' || contains(info.groups[*], 'editor') && 'Editor' || 'Viewer'
```
