tensorflow/tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark/README.md, before:

# TFLite Model Benchmark Tool

## Description

A simple C++ binary to benchmark a TFLite model and its individual operators,
both on desktop machines and on Android. The binary takes a TFLite model,
generates random inputs and then repeatedly runs the model for specified number
of runs. Aggregrate latency statistics are reported after running the benchmark.

The instructions below are for running the binary on Desktop and Android,
for iOS please use the
[iOS benchmark app](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark/ios).

## Parameters

The binary takes the following required parameters:

*   `graph`: `string` \
    The path to the TFLite model file.

and the following optional parameters:

*   `num_threads`: `int` (default=1) \
    The number of threads to use for running TFLite interpreter.
*   `warmup_runs`: `int` (default=1) \
    The number of warmup runs to do before starting the benchmark.
*   `num_runs`: `int` (default=50) \
    The number of runs. Increase this to reduce variance.
*   `run_delay`: `float` (default=-1.0) \
    The delay in seconds between subsequent benchmark runs. Non-positive values
    mean use no delay.
*   `use_nnapi`: `bool` (default=false) \
    Whether to use [Android NNAPI](https://developer.android.com/ndk/guides/neuralnetworks/).
    This API is available on recent Android devices.

## To build/install/run

### On Android:

(0) Refer to https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/examples/android to edit the `WORKSPACE` to configure the android NDK/SDK.

(1) Build for your specific platform, e.g.:

```
bazel build -c opt \
  --config=android_arm \
  --cxxopt='--std=c++11' \
  tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark:benchmark_model
```

(2) Connect your phone. Push the binary to your phone with adb push
     (make the directory if required):

```
adb push bazel-bin/tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark/benchmark_model /data/local/tmp
```

(3) Make the binary executable.

```
adb shell chmod +x /data/local/tmp/benchmark_model
```

(4) Push the compute graph that you need to test. For example:

```
adb push mobilenet_quant_v1_224.tflite /data/local/tmp
```

(5) Run the benchmark. For example:

```
adb shell /data/local/tmp/benchmark_model \
  --graph=/data/local/tmp/mobilenet_quant_v1_224.tflite \
  --num_threads=4
```

### On desktop:
(1) build the binary

```
bazel build -c opt tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark:benchmark_model
```

(2) Run on your compute graph, similar to the Android case but without the need of adb shell.
For example:

```
bazel-bin/tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark/benchmark_model \
  --graph=mobilenet_quant_v1_224.tflite \
  --num_threads=4
```

The MobileNet graph used as an example here may be downloaded from [here](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.tensorflow.org/models/tflite/mobilenet_v1_224_android_quant_2017_11_08.zip).


## Reducing variance between runs on Android.

Most modern Android phones use [ARM big.LITTLE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ARM_big.LITTLE)
architecture where some cores are more power hungry but faster than other cores.
When running benchmarks on these phones there can be significant variance
between different runs of the benchmark. One way to reduce variance between runs
is to set the [CPU affinity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Processor_affinity)
before running the benchmark. On Android this can be done using the `taskset`
command.
E.g. for running the benchmark on big cores on Pixel 2 with a single thread one
can use the following command:

```
adb shell taskset f0 /data/local/tmp/benchmark_model \
  --graph=/data/local/tmp/mobilenet_quant_v1_224.tflite \
  --num_threads=1
```

where `f0` is the affinity mask for big cores on Pixel 2.
Note: The affinity mask varies with the device.

## Profiling model operators
The benchmark model binary also allows you to profile operators and give execution times of each operator. To do this,
compile the binary with a compiler flag that enables profiling to be compiled in. Pass **--copt=-DTFLITE_PROFILING_ENABLED**
to compile benchmark with profiling support.
For example, to compile with profiling support on Android, add this flag to the previous command:

```
bazel build -c opt \
  --config=android_arm \
  --cxxopt='--std=c++11' \
  --copt=-DTFLITE_PROFILING_ENABLED \
  tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark:benchmark_model
```
This compiles TFLite with profiling enabled, now you can run the benchmark binary like before. The binary will produce detailed statistics for each operation similar to those shown below:

```

============================== Run Order ==============================
	             [node type]	  [start]	  [first]	 [avg ms]	     [%]	  [cdf%]	  [mem KB]	[times called]	[Name]
	                 CONV_2D	    0.000	    4.269	    4.269	  0.107%	  0.107%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_0/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	    4.270	    2.150	    2.150	  0.054%	  0.161%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_1_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	    6.421	    6.107	    6.107	  0.153%	  0.314%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_1_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   12.528	    1.366	    1.366	  0.034%	  0.348%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_2_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   13.895	    4.195	    4.195	  0.105%	  0.454%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_2_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   18.091	    1.260	    1.260	  0.032%	  0.485%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_3_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   19.352	    6.652	    6.652	  0.167%	  0.652%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_3_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   26.005	    0.698	    0.698	  0.018%	  0.670%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_4_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   26.703	    3.344	    3.344	  0.084%	  0.754%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_4_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   30.047	    0.646	    0.646	  0.016%	  0.770%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_5_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   30.694	    5.800	    5.800	  0.145%	  0.915%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_5_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   36.495	    0.331	    0.331	  0.008%	  0.924%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_6_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   36.826	    2.838	    2.838	  0.071%	  0.995%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_6_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   39.665	    0.439	    0.439	  0.011%	  1.006%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_7_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   40.105	    5.293	    5.293	  0.133%	  1.139%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_7_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   45.399	    0.352	    0.352	  0.009%	  1.147%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_8_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   45.752	    5.322	    5.322	  0.133%	  1.281%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_8_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   51.075	    0.357	    0.357	  0.009%	  1.290%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_9_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   51.432	    5.693	    5.693	  0.143%	  1.433%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_9_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   57.126	    0.366	    0.366	  0.009%	  1.442%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_10_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   57.493	    5.472	    5.472	  0.137%	  1.579%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_10_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   62.966	    0.364	    0.364	  0.009%	  1.588%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_11_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   63.330	    5.404	    5.404	  0.136%	  1.724%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_11_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   68.735	    0.155	    0.155	  0.004%	  1.728%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_12_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   68.891	    2.970	    2.970	  0.074%	  1.802%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_12_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   71.862	    0.206	    0.206	  0.005%	  1.807%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_13_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   72.069	    5.888	    5.888	  0.148%	  1.955%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_13_pointwise/Relu6]
	         AVERAGE_POOL_2D	   77.958	    0.036	    0.036	  0.001%	  1.956%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/Logits/AvgPool_1a/AvgPool]
	                 CONV_2D	   77.994	    1.445	    1.445	  0.036%	  1.992%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/Logits/Conv2d_1c_1x1/BiasAdd]
	                 RESHAPE	   79.440	    0.002	    0.002	  0.000%	  1.992%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/Predictions/Reshape]
	                 SOFTMAX	   79.443	    0.029	    0.029	  0.001%	  1.993%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/Predictions/Softmax]

============================== Top by Computation Time ==============================
	             [node type]	  [start]	  [first]	 [avg ms]	     [%]	  [cdf%]	  [mem KB]	[times called]	[Name]
	                 CONV_2D	   19.352	    6.652	    6.652	  0.167%	  0.167%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_3_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	    6.421	    6.107	    6.107	  0.153%	  0.320%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_1_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   72.069	    5.888	    5.888	  0.148%	  0.468%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_13_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   30.694	    5.800	    5.800	  0.145%	  0.613%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_5_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   51.432	    5.693	    5.693	  0.143%	  0.756%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_9_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   57.493	    5.472	    5.472	  0.137%	  0.893%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_10_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   63.330	    5.404	    5.404	  0.136%	  1.029%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_11_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   45.752	    5.322	    5.322	  0.133%	  1.162%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_8_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   40.105	    5.293	    5.293	  0.133%	  1.295%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_7_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	    0.000	    4.269	    4.269	  0.107%	  1.402%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_0/Relu6]

Number of nodes executed: 31
============================== Summary by node type ==============================
	             [Node type]	  [count]	  [avg ms]	    [avg %]	    [cdf %]	  [mem KB]	[times called]
	                 CONV_2D	       15	     1.406	    89.270%	    89.270%	     0.000	        0
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	       13	     0.169	    10.730%	   100.000%	     0.000	        0
	                 SOFTMAX	        1	     0.000	     0.000%	   100.000%	     0.000	        0
	                 RESHAPE	        1	     0.000	     0.000%	   100.000%	     0.000	        0
	         AVERAGE_POOL_2D	        1	     0.000	     0.000%	   100.000%	     0.000	        0

Timings (microseconds): count=50 first=79449 curr=81350 min=77385 max=88213 avg=79732 std=1929
Memory (bytes): count=0
31 nodes observed


Average inference timings in us: Warmup: 83235, Init: 38467, no stats: 79760.9
```

Commit message:

tensorflow: Add an Android APK wrapper for the benchmark_model utility
Commit: a9bfbc26263ca6af4ea9410daea093633a9b49fa

tensorflow/tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark/README.md, after:

# TFLite Model Benchmark Tool

## Description

A simple C++ binary to benchmark a TFLite model and its individual operators,
both on desktop machines and on Android. The binary takes a TFLite model,
generates random inputs and then repeatedly runs the model for specified number
of runs. Aggregrate latency statistics are reported after running the benchmark.

The instructions below are for running the binary on Desktop and Android,
for iOS please use the
[iOS benchmark app](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark/ios).

An experimental Android APK wrapper for the benchmark model utility offers more
faithful execution behavior on Android (via a foreground Activity). It is
located
[here](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark/android).

## Parameters

The binary takes the following required parameters:

*   `graph`: `string` \
    The path to the TFLite model file.

and the following optional parameters:

*   `num_threads`: `int` (default=1) \
    The number of threads to use for running TFLite interpreter.
*   `warmup_runs`: `int` (default=1) \
    The number of warmup runs to do before starting the benchmark.
*   `num_runs`: `int` (default=50) \
    The number of runs. Increase this to reduce variance.
*   `run_delay`: `float` (default=-1.0) \
    The delay in seconds between subsequent benchmark runs. Non-positive values
    mean use no delay.
*   `use_nnapi`: `bool` (default=false) \
    Whether to use [Android NNAPI](https://developer.android.com/ndk/guides/neuralnetworks/).
    This API is available on recent Android devices.

## To build/install/run

### On Android:

(0) Refer to https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/tree/master/tensorflow/examples/android to edit the `WORKSPACE` to configure the android NDK/SDK.

(1) Build for your specific platform, e.g.:

```
bazel build -c opt \
  --config=android_arm \
  --cxxopt='--std=c++11' \
  tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark:benchmark_model
```

(2) Connect your phone. Push the binary to your phone with adb push
     (make the directory if required):

```
adb push bazel-bin/tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark/benchmark_model /data/local/tmp
```

(3) Make the binary executable.

```
adb shell chmod +x /data/local/tmp/benchmark_model
```

(4) Push the compute graph that you need to test. For example:

```
adb push mobilenet_quant_v1_224.tflite /data/local/tmp
```

(5) Run the benchmark. For example:

```
adb shell /data/local/tmp/benchmark_model \
  --graph=/data/local/tmp/mobilenet_quant_v1_224.tflite \
  --num_threads=4
```

### On desktop:
(1) build the binary

```
bazel build -c opt tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark:benchmark_model
```

(2) Run on your compute graph, similar to the Android case but without the need of adb shell.
For example:

```
bazel-bin/tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark/benchmark_model \
  --graph=mobilenet_quant_v1_224.tflite \
  --num_threads=4
```

The MobileNet graph used as an example here may be downloaded from [here](https://storage.googleapis.com/download.tensorflow.org/models/tflite/mobilenet_v1_224_android_quant_2017_11_08.zip).


## Reducing variance between runs on Android.

Most modern Android phones use [ARM big.LITTLE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ARM_big.LITTLE)
architecture where some cores are more power hungry but faster than other cores.
When running benchmarks on these phones there can be significant variance
between different runs of the benchmark. One way to reduce variance between runs
is to set the [CPU affinity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Processor_affinity)
before running the benchmark. On Android this can be done using the `taskset`
command.
E.g. for running the benchmark on big cores on Pixel 2 with a single thread one
can use the following command:

```
adb shell taskset f0 /data/local/tmp/benchmark_model \
  --graph=/data/local/tmp/mobilenet_quant_v1_224.tflite \
  --num_threads=1
```

where `f0` is the affinity mask for big cores on Pixel 2.
Note: The affinity mask varies with the device.

## Profiling model operators
The benchmark model binary also allows you to profile operators and give execution times of each operator. To do this,
compile the binary with a compiler flag that enables profiling to be compiled in. Pass **--copt=-DTFLITE_PROFILING_ENABLED**
to compile benchmark with profiling support.
For example, to compile with profiling support on Android, add this flag to the previous command:

```
bazel build -c opt \
  --config=android_arm \
  --cxxopt='--std=c++11' \
  --copt=-DTFLITE_PROFILING_ENABLED \
  tensorflow/lite/tools/benchmark:benchmark_model
```
This compiles TFLite with profiling enabled, now you can run the benchmark binary like before. The binary will produce detailed statistics for each operation similar to those shown below:

```

============================== Run Order ==============================
	             [node type]	  [start]	  [first]	 [avg ms]	     [%]	  [cdf%]	  [mem KB]	[times called]	[Name]
	                 CONV_2D	    0.000	    4.269	    4.269	  0.107%	  0.107%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_0/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	    4.270	    2.150	    2.150	  0.054%	  0.161%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_1_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	    6.421	    6.107	    6.107	  0.153%	  0.314%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_1_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   12.528	    1.366	    1.366	  0.034%	  0.348%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_2_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   13.895	    4.195	    4.195	  0.105%	  0.454%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_2_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   18.091	    1.260	    1.260	  0.032%	  0.485%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_3_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   19.352	    6.652	    6.652	  0.167%	  0.652%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_3_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   26.005	    0.698	    0.698	  0.018%	  0.670%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_4_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   26.703	    3.344	    3.344	  0.084%	  0.754%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_4_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   30.047	    0.646	    0.646	  0.016%	  0.770%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_5_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   30.694	    5.800	    5.800	  0.145%	  0.915%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_5_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   36.495	    0.331	    0.331	  0.008%	  0.924%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_6_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   36.826	    2.838	    2.838	  0.071%	  0.995%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_6_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   39.665	    0.439	    0.439	  0.011%	  1.006%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_7_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   40.105	    5.293	    5.293	  0.133%	  1.139%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_7_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   45.399	    0.352	    0.352	  0.009%	  1.147%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_8_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   45.752	    5.322	    5.322	  0.133%	  1.281%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_8_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   51.075	    0.357	    0.357	  0.009%	  1.290%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_9_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   51.432	    5.693	    5.693	  0.143%	  1.433%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_9_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   57.126	    0.366	    0.366	  0.009%	  1.442%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_10_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   57.493	    5.472	    5.472	  0.137%	  1.579%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_10_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   62.966	    0.364	    0.364	  0.009%	  1.588%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_11_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   63.330	    5.404	    5.404	  0.136%	  1.724%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_11_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   68.735	    0.155	    0.155	  0.004%	  1.728%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_12_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   68.891	    2.970	    2.970	  0.074%	  1.802%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_12_pointwise/Relu6]
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	   71.862	    0.206	    0.206	  0.005%	  1.807%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_13_depthwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   72.069	    5.888	    5.888	  0.148%	  1.955%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_13_pointwise/Relu6]
	         AVERAGE_POOL_2D	   77.958	    0.036	    0.036	  0.001%	  1.956%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/Logits/AvgPool_1a/AvgPool]
	                 CONV_2D	   77.994	    1.445	    1.445	  0.036%	  1.992%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/Logits/Conv2d_1c_1x1/BiasAdd]
	                 RESHAPE	   79.440	    0.002	    0.002	  0.000%	  1.992%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/Predictions/Reshape]
	                 SOFTMAX	   79.443	    0.029	    0.029	  0.001%	  1.993%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/Predictions/Softmax]

============================== Top by Computation Time ==============================
	             [node type]	  [start]	  [first]	 [avg ms]	     [%]	  [cdf%]	  [mem KB]	[times called]	[Name]
	                 CONV_2D	   19.352	    6.652	    6.652	  0.167%	  0.167%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_3_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	    6.421	    6.107	    6.107	  0.153%	  0.320%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_1_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   72.069	    5.888	    5.888	  0.148%	  0.468%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_13_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   30.694	    5.800	    5.800	  0.145%	  0.613%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_5_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   51.432	    5.693	    5.693	  0.143%	  0.756%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_9_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   57.493	    5.472	    5.472	  0.137%	  0.893%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_10_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   63.330	    5.404	    5.404	  0.136%	  1.029%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_11_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   45.752	    5.322	    5.322	  0.133%	  1.162%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_8_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	   40.105	    5.293	    5.293	  0.133%	  1.295%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_7_pointwise/Relu6]
	                 CONV_2D	    0.000	    4.269	    4.269	  0.107%	  1.402%	     0.000	        0	[MobilenetV1/MobilenetV1/Conv2d_0/Relu6]

Number of nodes executed: 31
============================== Summary by node type ==============================
	             [Node type]	  [count]	  [avg ms]	    [avg %]	    [cdf %]	  [mem KB]	[times called]
	                 CONV_2D	       15	     1.406	    89.270%	    89.270%	     0.000	        0
	       DEPTHWISE_CONV_2D	       13	     0.169	    10.730%	   100.000%	     0.000	        0
	                 SOFTMAX	        1	     0.000	     0.000%	   100.000%	     0.000	        0
	                 RESHAPE	        1	     0.000	     0.000%	   100.000%	     0.000	        0
	         AVERAGE_POOL_2D	        1	     0.000	     0.000%	   100.000%	     0.000	        0

Timings (microseconds): count=50 first=79449 curr=81350 min=77385 max=88213 avg=79732 std=1929
Memory (bytes): count=0
31 nodes observed


Average inference timings in us: Warmup: 83235, Init: 38467, no stats: 79760.9
```
