grafana/devenv/README.md, before:

# Set up your development environment

This folder contains useful scripts and configuration so you can:

- Configure data sources in Grafana for development.
- Configure dashboards for development and test scenarios.
- Create docker-compose file with databases and fake data.

## Install Docker

Grafana uses [Docker](https://docker.com) to make the task of setting up databases a little easier. If you do not have it already, make sure you [install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/) before proceeding to the next step.

## Developer dashboards and data sources

```bash
./setup.sh
```

After restarting the Grafana server, there should be a number of data sources named `gdev-<type>` provisioned as well as
a dashboard folder named `gdev dashboards`. This folder contains dashboard and panel features tests dashboards. 

Please update these dashboards or make new ones as new panels and dashboards features are developed or new bugs are
found. The dashboards are located in the `devenv/dev-dashboards` folder. 

## docker-compose with databases

This command creates a docker-compose file with specified databases configured and ready to run. Each database has
a prepared image with some fake data ready to use. For available databases, see `docker/blocks` directory. Notice that
for some databases there are multiple images with different versions. Some blocks such as `slow_proxy_mac` or `apache_proxy_mac` are specifically for Macs.  

```bash
make devenv sources=influxdb,prometheus,elastic5
```

Some of the blocks support dynamic change of the image version used in the Docker file. The signature looks like this: 

```bash
make devenv sources=postgres,auth/openldap,grafana postgres_version=9.2 grafana_version=6.7.0-beta1
```


### Notes per block

#### Grafana
The grafana block is pre-configured with the dev-datasources and dashboards.

#### Jaeger
Jaeger block runs both Jaeger and Loki container. Loki container sends traces to Jaeger and also logs its own logs into itself so it is possible to setup derived field for traceID from Loki to Jaeger. You need to install a docker plugin for the self logging to work, without it the container won't start. See https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/docker-driver/#installing for installation instructions.

#### Graphite

| version | source name | graphite-web port | plaintext port | pickle port |
|---------|-------------|-------------------|----------------|-------------|
| 1.1     | graphite    | 8180              | 2103           | 2103        |
| 1.0     | graphite1   | 8280              | 2203           | 2203        |
| 0.9     | graphite09  | 8380              | 2303           | 2303        |

## Debugging setup in VS Code
An example of launch.json is provided in `devenv/vscode/launch.json`. It basically does what Makefile and .bra.toml do. The 'program' field is set to the folder name so VS Code loads all *.go files in it instead of just main.go.

## Troubleshooting

### Containers that read from log files fail to start (Mac OS)

If you are running Mac OSX, containers that read from the log files (e.g. Telegraf, Fileabeat, Promtail) can fail to start. This is because the default Docker for Mac does not have permission to create `grafana` folder at the `/var/log` location, as it runs as the current user. To solve this issue, manually create the folder `/var/log/grafana`, then start the containers again.

```
sudo mkdir /var/log/grafana
```

Commit message:

grafana: Add information about tempo in devenv (#57204)
Commit: 3cb1ec58f06588f6a12c711e6890767533757c5b

grafana/devenv/README.md, after:

# Set up your development environment

This folder contains useful scripts and configuration so you can:

- Configure data sources in Grafana for development.
- Configure dashboards for development and test scenarios.
- Create docker-compose file with databases and fake data.

## Install Docker

Grafana uses [Docker](https://docker.com) to make the task of setting up databases a little easier. If you do not have it already, make sure you [install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/install/) before proceeding to the next step.

## Developer dashboards and data sources

```bash
./setup.sh
```

After restarting the Grafana server, there should be a number of data sources named `gdev-<type>` provisioned as well as
a dashboard folder named `gdev dashboards`. This folder contains dashboard and panel features tests dashboards. 

Please update these dashboards or make new ones as new panels and dashboards features are developed or new bugs are
found. The dashboards are located in the `devenv/dev-dashboards` folder. 

## docker-compose with databases

This command creates a docker-compose file with specified databases configured and ready to run. Each database has
a prepared image with some fake data ready to use. For available databases, see `docker/blocks` directory. Notice that
for some databases there are multiple images with different versions. Some blocks such as `slow_proxy_mac` or `apache_proxy_mac` are specifically for Macs.  

```bash
make devenv sources=influxdb,prometheus,elastic5
```

Some of the blocks support dynamic change of the image version used in the Docker file. The signature looks like this: 

```bash
make devenv sources=postgres,auth/openldap,grafana postgres_version=9.2 grafana_version=6.7.0-beta1
```


### Notes per block

#### Grafana
The grafana block is pre-configured with the dev-datasources and dashboards.

#### Tempo
The tempo block runs loki and prometheus as well and should not be ran with prometheus as a separate source. You need to install a docker plugin for the self logging to work, without it the container won't start. See https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/docker-driver/#installing for installation instructions.

#### Jaeger
Jaeger block runs both Jaeger and Loki container. Loki container sends traces to Jaeger and also logs its own logs into itself so it is possible to setup derived field for traceID from Loki to Jaeger. You need to install a docker plugin for the self logging to work, without it the container won't start. See https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/clients/docker-driver/#installing for installation instructions.

#### Graphite

| version | source name | graphite-web port | plaintext port | pickle port |
|---------|-------------|-------------------|----------------|-------------|
| 1.1     | graphite    | 8180              | 2103           | 2103        |
| 1.0     | graphite1   | 8280              | 2203           | 2203        |
| 0.9     | graphite09  | 8380              | 2303           | 2303        |

## Debugging setup in VS Code
An example of launch.json is provided in `devenv/vscode/launch.json`. It basically does what Makefile and .bra.toml do. The 'program' field is set to the folder name so VS Code loads all *.go files in it instead of just main.go.

## Troubleshooting

### Containers that read from log files fail to start (Mac OS)

If you are running Mac OSX, containers that read from the log files (e.g. Telegraf, Fileabeat, Promtail) can fail to start. This is because the default Docker for Mac does not have permission to create `grafana` folder at the `/var/log` location, as it runs as the current user. To solve this issue, manually create the folder `/var/log/grafana`, then start the containers again.

```
sudo mkdir /var/log/grafana
```
