kubernetes/docs/kubectl_log.md, before:

## kubectl log

Print the logs for a container in a pod.

### Synopsis


Print the logs for a container in a pod. If the pod has only one container, the container name is optional.

```
kubectl log [-f] POD [CONTAINER]
```

### Examples

```
// Returns snapshot of ruby-container logs from pod 123456-7890.
$ kubectl log 123456-7890 ruby-container

// Starts streaming of ruby-container logs from pod 123456-7890.
$ kubectl log -f 123456-7890 ruby-container
```

### Options

```
  -f, --follow=false: Specify if the logs should be streamed.
  -h, --help=false: help for log
      --interactive=true: If true, prompt the user for input when required. Default true.
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --alsologtostderr=false: log to standard error as well as files
      --api-version="": The API version to use when talking to the server
      --certificate-authority="": Path to a cert. file for the certificate authority.
      --client-certificate="": Path to a client key file for TLS.
      --client-key="": Path to a client key file for TLS.
      --cluster="": The name of the kubeconfig cluster to use
      --context="": The name of the kubeconfig context to use
      --insecure-skip-tls-verify=false: If true, the server's certificate will not be checked for validity. This will make your HTTPS connections insecure.
      --kubeconfig="": Path to the kubeconfig file to use for CLI requests.
      --log_backtrace_at=:0: when logging hits line file:N, emit a stack trace
      --log_dir=: If non-empty, write log files in this directory
      --log_flush_frequency=5s: Maximum number of seconds between log flushes
      --logtostderr=true: log to standard error instead of files
      --match-server-version=false: Require server version to match client version
      --namespace="": If present, the namespace scope for this CLI request.
      --password="": Password for basic authentication to the API server.
  -s, --server="": The address and port of the Kubernetes API server
      --stderrthreshold=2: logs at or above this threshold go to stderr
      --token="": Bearer token for authentication to the API server.
      --user="": The name of the kubeconfig user to use
      --username="": Username for basic authentication to the API server.
      --v=0: log level for V logs
      --validate=false: If true, use a schema to validate the input before sending it
      --vmodule=: comma-separated list of pattern=N settings for file-filtered logging
```

### SEE ALSO
* [kubectl](kubectl.md)	 - kubectl controls the Kubernetes cluster manager

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra at 2015-05-08 20:26:40.491667484 +0000 UTC

Commit message:

kubernetes: Merge pull request #7973 from dchen1107/podstatus
Commit: 43029345f93bacdf8f07f1d4a17354552d8920c1

kubernetes/docs/kubectl_log.md, after:

## kubectl log

Print the logs for a container in a pod.

### Synopsis


Print the logs for a container in a pod. If the pod has only one container, the container name is optional.

```
kubectl log [-f] [-p] POD [CONTAINER]
```

### Examples

```
// Returns snapshot of ruby-container logs from pod 123456-7890.
$ kubectl log 123456-7890 ruby-container

// Returns snapshot of previous terminated ruby-container logs from pod 123456-7890.
$ kubectl log -p 123456-7890 ruby-container

// Starts streaming of ruby-container logs from pod 123456-7890.
$ kubectl log -f 123456-7890 ruby-container
```

### Options

```
  -f, --follow=false: Specify if the logs should be streamed.
  -h, --help=false: help for log
      --interactive=true: If true, prompt the user for input when required. Default true.
  -p, --previous=false: If true, print the logs for the previous instance of the container in a pod if it exists.
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
      --alsologtostderr=false: log to standard error as well as files
      --api-version="": The API version to use when talking to the server
      --certificate-authority="": Path to a cert. file for the certificate authority.
      --client-certificate="": Path to a client key file for TLS.
      --client-key="": Path to a client key file for TLS.
      --cluster="": The name of the kubeconfig cluster to use
      --context="": The name of the kubeconfig context to use
      --insecure-skip-tls-verify=false: If true, the server's certificate will not be checked for validity. This will make your HTTPS connections insecure.
      --kubeconfig="": Path to the kubeconfig file to use for CLI requests.
      --log_backtrace_at=:0: when logging hits line file:N, emit a stack trace
      --log_dir=: If non-empty, write log files in this directory
      --log_flush_frequency=5s: Maximum number of seconds between log flushes
      --logtostderr=true: log to standard error instead of files
      --match-server-version=false: Require server version to match client version
      --namespace="": If present, the namespace scope for this CLI request.
      --password="": Password for basic authentication to the API server.
  -s, --server="": The address and port of the Kubernetes API server
      --stderrthreshold=2: logs at or above this threshold go to stderr
      --token="": Bearer token for authentication to the API server.
      --user="": The name of the kubeconfig user to use
      --username="": Username for basic authentication to the API server.
      --v=0: log level for V logs
      --validate=false: If true, use a schema to validate the input before sending it
      --vmodule=: comma-separated list of pattern=N settings for file-filtered logging
```

### SEE ALSO
* [kubectl](kubectl.md)	 - kubectl controls the Kubernetes cluster manager

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra at 2015-05-08 20:26:40.491667484 +0000 UTC
