grafana/docs/sources/features/datasources/influxdb.md, before:

+++
title = "Using InfluxDB in Grafana"
description = "Guide for using InfluxDB in Grafana"
keywords = ["grafana", "influxdb", "guide"]
type = "docs"
aliases = ["/datasources/influxdb"]
[menu.docs]
name = "InfluxDB"
parent = "datasources"
weight = 3
+++

# Using InfluxDB in Grafana

Grafana ships with very feature rich data source plugin for InfluxDB. Supporting a feature rich query editor, annotation and templating queries.

## Adding the data source

1. Open the side menu by clicking the Grafana icon in the top header.
2. In the side menu under the `Dashboards` link you should find a link named `Data Sources`.
3. Click the `+ Add data source` button in the top header.
4. Select *InfluxDB* from the *Type* dropdown.

> NOTE: If you're not seeing the `Data Sources` link in your side menu it means that your current user does not have the `Admin` role for the current organization.

Name | Description
------------ | -------------
*Name* | The data source name. This is how you refer to the data source in panels & queries.
*Default* | Default data source means that it will be pre-selected for new panels.
*Url* | The http protocol, ip and port of you influxdb api (influxdb api port is by default 8086)
*Access* | Proxy = access via Grafana backend, Direct = access directly from browser.
*Database* | Name of your influxdb database
*User* | Name of your database user
*Password* | Database user's password

### Proxy vs Direct access

Proxy access means that the Grafana backend will proxy all requests from the browser. So requests to InfluxDB will be channeled through
`grafana-server`. This means that the URL you specify needs to be accessible from the server you are running Grafana on. Proxy access
mode is also more secure as the username & password will never reach the browser.

## Query Editor

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/v45/influxdb_query_still.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" animated-gif="/img/docs/v45/influxdb_query.gif" >}}

You find the InfluxDB editor in the metrics tab in Graph or Singlestat panel's edit mode. You enter edit mode by clicking the
panel title, then edit. The editor allows you to select metrics and tags.

### Filter data (WHERE)
To add a tag filter click the plus icon to the right of the `WHERE` condition. You can remove tag filters by clicking on
the tag key and select `--remove tag filter--`.

**Regex matching**

You can type in regex patterns for metric names or tag filter values, be sure to wrap the regex pattern in forward slashes (`/`). Grafana
will automatically adjust the filter tag condition to use the InfluxDB regex match condition operator (`=~`).

### Field & Aggregation functions
In the `SELECT` row you can specify what fields and functions you want to use. If you have a
group by time you need an aggregation function. Some functions like derivative require an aggregation function. The editor tries simplify and unify this part of the query. For example:<br>
![](/img/docs/influxdb/select_editor.png)<br>

The above will generate the following InfluxDB `SELECT` clause:

```sql
SELECT derivative(mean("value"), 10s) /10 AS "REQ/s" FROM ....
```

#### Select multiple fields
Use the plus button and select Field > field to add another SELECT clause. You can also
specify an asterix `*` to select all fields.

### Group By
To group by a tag click the plus icon at the end of the GROUP BY row. Pick a tag from the dropdown that appears.
You can remove the group by by clicking on the `tag` and then click on the x icon.

### Text Editor Mode (RAW)
You can switch to raw query mode by clicking hamburger icon and then `Switch editor mode`.

> If you use Raw Query be sure your query at minimum have `WHERE $timeFilter`
> Also please always have a group by time and an aggregation function, otherwise InfluxDB can easily return hundreds of thousands
> of data points that will hang the browser.

### Alias patterns

- $m = replaced with measurement name
- $measurement = replaced with measurement name
- $col = replaced with column name
- $tag_exampletag = replaced with the value of the `exampletag` tag. The syntax is `$tag_yourTagName` (must start with `$tag_`). To use your tag as an alias in the ALIAS BY field then the tag must be used to group by in the query.
- You can also use [[tag_hostname]] pattern replacement syntax. For example, in the ALIAS BY field using this text `Host: [[tag_hostname]]` would substitute in the `hostname` tag value for each legend value and an example legend value would be: `Host: server1`.

### Table query / raw data

![](/assets/img/blog/v2.6/table_influxdb_logs.png)

You can remove the group by time by clicking on the `time` part and then the `x` icon. You can
change the option `Format As` to `Table` if you want to show raw data in the `Table` panel.


## Templating

Instead of hard-coding things like server, application and sensor name in you metric queries you can use variables in their place.
Variables are shown as dropdown select boxes at the top of the dashboard. These dropdowns makes it easy to change the data
being displayed in your dashboard.

Checkout the [Templating]({{< relref "reference/templating.md" >}}) documentation for an introduction to the templating feature and the different
types of template variables.

### Query variable

If you add a template variable of the type `Query` you can write a InfluxDB exploration (meta data) query. These queries can
return things like measurement names, key names or key values.

For example you can have a variable that contains all values for tag `hostname` if you specify a query like this in the templating variable *Query* setting.

```sql
SHOW TAG VALUES WITH KEY = "hostname"
```

You can also create nested variables. For example if you had another variable, for example `region`. Then you could have
the hosts variable only show hosts from the current selected region with a query like this:

```sql
SHOW TAG VALUES WITH KEY = "hostname"  WHERE region =~ /$region/
```

You can fetch key names for a given measurement.

```sql
SHOW TAG KEYS [FROM <measurement_name>]
```

If you have a variable with key names you can use this variable in a group by clause. This will allow you to change group by using the variable dropdown at the top
of the dashboard.

### Using variables in queries

There are two syntaxes:

`$<varname>`  Example:

```sql
SELECT mean("value") FROM "logins" WHERE "hostname" =~ /^$host$/ AND $timeFilter GROUP BY time($__interval), "hostname"
```

`[[varname]]`  Example:

```sql
SELECT mean("value") FROM "logins" WHERE "hostname" =~ /^[[host]]$/ AND $timeFilter GROUP BY time($__interval), "hostname"
```

Why two ways? The first syntax is easier to read and write but does not allow you to use a variable in the middle of a word. When the *Multi-value* or *Include all value*
options are enabled, Grafana converts the labels from plain text to a regex compatible string. Which means you have to use `=~` instead of `=`.

Example Dashboard:
[InfluxDB Templated Dashboard](http://play.grafana.org/dashboard/db/influxdb-templated-queries)

### Ad hoc filters variable

InfluxDB supports the special `Ad hoc filters` variable type. This variable allows you to specify any number of key/value filters on the fly. These filters will automatically
be applied to all your InfluxDB queries.

## Annotations

[Annotations]({{< relref "reference/annotations.md" >}}) allows you to overlay rich event information on top of graphs. You add annotation
queries via the Dashboard menu / Annotations view.

An example query:

```SQL
SELECT title, description from events WHERE $timeFilter order asc
```

For InfluxDB you need to enter a query like in the above example. You need to have the ```where $timeFilter```
part. If you only select one column you will not need to enter anything in the column mapping fields. The
Tags field can be a comma separated string.

## Configure datasource with provisioning

It's now possible to configure datasources using config files with Grafanas provisioning system. You can read more about how it works and all the settings you can set for datasources on the [provisioning docs page](/administration/provisioning/#datasources)

Here are some provisioning examples for this datasource.

```yaml
apiVersion: 1

datasources:
  - name: InfluxDB
    type: influxdb
    access: proxy
    database: site
    user: grafana
    password: grafana
    url: http://localhost:8086
```

Commit message:

grafana: docs: elasticsearch and influxdb docs for group by time interval option (#11609)
Commit: 90ed046ce35a75b020632b6d5704c0fa475e3dec

grafana/docs/sources/features/datasources/influxdb.md, after:

+++
title = "Using InfluxDB in Grafana"
description = "Guide for using InfluxDB in Grafana"
keywords = ["grafana", "influxdb", "guide"]
type = "docs"
aliases = ["/datasources/influxdb"]
[menu.docs]
name = "InfluxDB"
parent = "datasources"
weight = 3
+++

# Using InfluxDB in Grafana

Grafana ships with very feature rich data source plugin for InfluxDB. Supporting a feature rich query editor, annotation and templating queries.

## Adding the data source

1. Open the side menu by clicking the Grafana icon in the top header.
2. In the side menu under the `Dashboards` link you should find a link named `Data Sources`.
3. Click the `+ Add data source` button in the top header.
4. Select *InfluxDB* from the *Type* dropdown.

> NOTE: If you're not seeing the `Data Sources` link in your side menu it means that your current user does not have the `Admin` role for the current organization.

Name | Description
------------ | -------------
*Name* | The data source name. This is how you refer to the data source in panels & queries.
*Default* | Default data source means that it will be pre-selected for new panels.
*Url* | The http protocol, ip and port of you influxdb api (influxdb api port is by default 8086)
*Access* | Proxy = access via Grafana backend, Direct = access directly from browser.
*Database* | Name of your influxdb database
*User* | Name of your database user
*Password* | Database user's password

### Proxy vs Direct access

Proxy access means that the Grafana backend will proxy all requests from the browser. So requests to InfluxDB will be channeled through
`grafana-server`. This means that the URL you specify needs to be accessible from the server you are running Grafana on. Proxy access
mode is also more secure as the username & password will never reach the browser.

### Min time interval
A lower limit for the auto group by time interval. Recommended to be set to write frequency, for example `1m` if your data is written every minute.
This option can also be overridden/configured in a dashboard panel under data source options. It's important to note that this value **needs** to be formated as a
number followed by a valid time identifier, e.g. `1m` (1 minute) or `30s` (30 seconds). The following time identifiers are supported:

Identifier | Description
------------ | -------------
`y`   | year
`M`   | month
`w`   | week
`d`   | day
`h`   | hour
`m`   | minute
`s`   | second
`ms`  | millisecond

## Query Editor

{{< docs-imagebox img="/img/docs/v45/influxdb_query_still.png" class="docs-image--no-shadow" animated-gif="/img/docs/v45/influxdb_query.gif" >}}

You find the InfluxDB editor in the metrics tab in Graph or Singlestat panel's edit mode. You enter edit mode by clicking the
panel title, then edit. The editor allows you to select metrics and tags.

### Filter data (WHERE)
To add a tag filter click the plus icon to the right of the `WHERE` condition. You can remove tag filters by clicking on
the tag key and select `--remove tag filter--`.

**Regex matching**

You can type in regex patterns for metric names or tag filter values, be sure to wrap the regex pattern in forward slashes (`/`). Grafana
will automatically adjust the filter tag condition to use the InfluxDB regex match condition operator (`=~`).

### Field & Aggregation functions
In the `SELECT` row you can specify what fields and functions you want to use. If you have a
group by time you need an aggregation function. Some functions like derivative require an aggregation function. The editor tries simplify and unify this part of the query. For example:<br>
![](/img/docs/influxdb/select_editor.png)<br>

The above will generate the following InfluxDB `SELECT` clause:

```sql
SELECT derivative(mean("value"), 10s) /10 AS "REQ/s" FROM ....
```

#### Select multiple fields
Use the plus button and select Field > field to add another SELECT clause. You can also
specify an asterix `*` to select all fields.

### Group By
To group by a tag click the plus icon at the end of the GROUP BY row. Pick a tag from the dropdown that appears.
You can remove the group by by clicking on the `tag` and then click on the x icon.

### Text Editor Mode (RAW)
You can switch to raw query mode by clicking hamburger icon and then `Switch editor mode`.

> If you use Raw Query be sure your query at minimum have `WHERE $timeFilter`
> Also please always have a group by time and an aggregation function, otherwise InfluxDB can easily return hundreds of thousands
> of data points that will hang the browser.

### Alias patterns

- $m = replaced with measurement name
- $measurement = replaced with measurement name
- $col = replaced with column name
- $tag_exampletag = replaced with the value of the `exampletag` tag. The syntax is `$tag_yourTagName` (must start with `$tag_`). To use your tag as an alias in the ALIAS BY field then the tag must be used to group by in the query.
- You can also use [[tag_hostname]] pattern replacement syntax. For example, in the ALIAS BY field using this text `Host: [[tag_hostname]]` would substitute in the `hostname` tag value for each legend value and an example legend value would be: `Host: server1`.

### Table query / raw data

![](/assets/img/blog/v2.6/table_influxdb_logs.png)

You can remove the group by time by clicking on the `time` part and then the `x` icon. You can
change the option `Format As` to `Table` if you want to show raw data in the `Table` panel.


## Templating

Instead of hard-coding things like server, application and sensor name in you metric queries you can use variables in their place.
Variables are shown as dropdown select boxes at the top of the dashboard. These dropdowns makes it easy to change the data
being displayed in your dashboard.

Checkout the [Templating]({{< relref "reference/templating.md" >}}) documentation for an introduction to the templating feature and the different
types of template variables.

### Query variable

If you add a template variable of the type `Query` you can write a InfluxDB exploration (meta data) query. These queries can
return things like measurement names, key names or key values.

For example you can have a variable that contains all values for tag `hostname` if you specify a query like this in the templating variable *Query* setting.

```sql
SHOW TAG VALUES WITH KEY = "hostname"
```

You can also create nested variables. For example if you had another variable, for example `region`. Then you could have
the hosts variable only show hosts from the current selected region with a query like this:

```sql
SHOW TAG VALUES WITH KEY = "hostname"  WHERE region =~ /$region/
```

You can fetch key names for a given measurement.

```sql
SHOW TAG KEYS [FROM <measurement_name>]
```

If you have a variable with key names you can use this variable in a group by clause. This will allow you to change group by using the variable dropdown at the top
of the dashboard.

### Using variables in queries

There are two syntaxes:

`$<varname>`  Example:

```sql
SELECT mean("value") FROM "logins" WHERE "hostname" =~ /^$host$/ AND $timeFilter GROUP BY time($__interval), "hostname"
```

`[[varname]]`  Example:

```sql
SELECT mean("value") FROM "logins" WHERE "hostname" =~ /^[[host]]$/ AND $timeFilter GROUP BY time($__interval), "hostname"
```

Why two ways? The first syntax is easier to read and write but does not allow you to use a variable in the middle of a word. When the *Multi-value* or *Include all value*
options are enabled, Grafana converts the labels from plain text to a regex compatible string. Which means you have to use `=~` instead of `=`.

Example Dashboard:
[InfluxDB Templated Dashboard](http://play.grafana.org/dashboard/db/influxdb-templated-queries)

### Ad hoc filters variable

InfluxDB supports the special `Ad hoc filters` variable type. This variable allows you to specify any number of key/value filters on the fly. These filters will automatically
be applied to all your InfluxDB queries.

## Annotations

[Annotations]({{< relref "reference/annotations.md" >}}) allows you to overlay rich event information on top of graphs. You add annotation
queries via the Dashboard menu / Annotations view.

An example query:

```SQL
SELECT title, description from events WHERE $timeFilter order asc
```

For InfluxDB you need to enter a query like in the above example. You need to have the ```where $timeFilter```
part. If you only select one column you will not need to enter anything in the column mapping fields. The
Tags field can be a comma separated string.

## Configure datasource with provisioning

It's now possible to configure datasources using config files with Grafanas provisioning system. You can read more about how it works and all the settings you can set for datasources on the [provisioning docs page](/administration/provisioning/#datasources)

Here are some provisioning examples for this datasource.

```yaml
apiVersion: 1

datasources:
  - name: InfluxDB
    type: influxdb
    access: proxy
    database: site
    user: grafana
    password: grafana
    url: http://localhost:8086
```
