kubernetes/examples/newrelic/README.md, before:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->


<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

## New Relic Server Monitoring Agent Example

This example shows how to run a New Relic server monitoring agent as a pod in a DaemonSet on an existing Kubernetes cluster.

This example will create a DaemonSet which places the New Relic monitoring agent on every node in the cluster. It's also fairly trivial to exclude specific Kubernetes nodes from the DaemonSet to just monitor specific servers.

### Step 0: Prerequisites

This process will create priviliged containers which have full access to the host system for logging. Beware of the security implications of this.

If you are using a Salt based KUBERNETES\_PROVIDER (**gce**, **vagrant**, **aws**), you should make sure the creation of privileged containers via the API is enabled. Check `cluster/saltbase/pillar/privilege.sls`.

DaemonSets must be enabled on your cluster. Instructions for enabling DaemonSet can be found [here](../../docs/api.md#enabling-the-extensions-group).

### Step 1: Configure New Relic Agent

The New Relic agent is configured via environment variables. We will configure these environment variables in a sourced bash script, encode the environment file data, and store it in a secret which will be loaded at container runtime.

The [New Relic Linux Server configuration page]
(https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/servers/new-relic-servers-linux/installation-configuration/configuring-servers-linux) lists all the other settings for nrsysmond.

To create an environment variable for a setting, prepend NRSYSMOND_ to its name. For example,

```console
loglevel=debug
```

translates to

```console
NRSYSMOND_loglevel=debug
```

Edit examples/newrelic/nrconfig.env and set up the environment variables for your NewRelic agent. Be sure to edit the license key field and fill in your own New Relic license key.

Now, let's vendor the config into a secret.

```console
$ cd examples/newrelic/
$ ./config-to-secret.sh
```

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: EXAMPLE newrelic-config-template.yaml -->

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: newrelic-config
type: Opaque
data:
  config: {{config_data}}
```

[Download example](newrelic-config-template.yaml?raw=true)
<!-- END MUNGE: EXAMPLE newrelic-config-template.yaml -->

The script will encode the config file and write it to `newrelic-config.yaml`.

Finally, submit the config to the cluster:

```console
$ kubectl create -f examples/newrelic/newrelic-config.yaml
```

### Step 2: Create the DaemonSet definition.

The DaemonSet definition instructs Kubernetes to place a newrelic sysmond agent on each Kubernetes node.

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: EXAMPLE newrelic-daemonset.yaml -->

```yaml
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: DaemonSet
metadata:
  name: newrelic-agent
  labels:
    tier: monitoring
    app: newrelic-agent
    version: v1
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        name: newrelic
    spec:
      # Filter to specific nodes:
      # nodeSelector:
      #  app: newrelic
      hostPID: true
      hostIPC: true
      hostNetwork: true
      containers:
        - resources:
            requests:
              cpu: 0.15
          securityContext:
            privileged: true
          env:
            - name: NRSYSMOND_logfile
              value: "/var/log/nrsysmond.log"
          image: newrelic/nrsysmond
          name: newrelic
          command: [ "bash", "-c", "source /etc/kube-newrelic/config && /usr/sbin/nrsysmond -E -F" ]
          volumeMounts:
            - name: newrelic-config
              mountPath: /etc/kube-newrelic
              readOnly: true
            - name: dev
              mountPath: /dev
            - name: run
              mountPath: /var/run/docker.sock
            - name: sys
              mountPath: /sys
            - name: log
              mountPath: /var/log
      volumes:
        - name: newrelic-config
          secret:
            secretName: newrelic-config
        - name: dev
          hostPath:
              path: /dev
        - name: run
          hostPath:
              path: /var/run/docker.sock
        - name: sys
          hostPath:
              path: /sys
        - name: log
          hostPath:
              path: /var/log
```

[Download example](newrelic-daemonset.yaml?raw=true)
<!-- END MUNGE: EXAMPLE newrelic-daemonset.yaml -->

The daemonset instructs Kubernetes to spawn pods on each node, mapping /dev/, /run/, /sys/, and /var/log to the container. It also maps the secrets we set up earlier to /etc/kube-newrelic/config, and sources them in the startup script, configuring the agent properly.

### Known issues

It's a bit cludgy to define the environment variables like we do here in these config files. There is [another issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/4710) to discuss adding mapping secrets to environment variables in Kubernetes.



<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: IS_VERSIONED -->
<!-- TAG IS_VERSIONED -->
<!-- END MUNGE: IS_VERSIONED -->


<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/examples/newrelic/README.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->

Commit message:

kubernetes: Merge pull request #27218 from dchen1107/docker
Commit: 5b5c8076ccbc4babc7af6c7619a16d5a80b44ec2

kubernetes/examples/newrelic/README.md, after:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

<!-- BEGIN STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">

<h2>PLEASE NOTE: This document applies to the HEAD of the source tree</h2>

If you are using a released version of Kubernetes, you should
refer to the docs that go with that version.

<!-- TAG RELEASE_LINK, added by the munger automatically -->
<strong>
The latest release of this document can be found
[here](http://releases.k8s.io/release-1.2/examples/newrelic/README.md).

Documentation for other releases can be found at
[releases.k8s.io](http://releases.k8s.io).
</strong>
--

<!-- END STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

## New Relic Server Monitoring Agent Example

This example shows how to run a New Relic server monitoring agent as a pod in a DaemonSet on an existing Kubernetes cluster.

This example will create a DaemonSet which places the New Relic monitoring agent on every node in the cluster. It's also fairly trivial to exclude specific Kubernetes nodes from the DaemonSet to just monitor specific servers.

### Step 0: Prerequisites

This process will create priviliged containers which have full access to the host system for logging. Beware of the security implications of this.

If you are using a Salt based KUBERNETES\_PROVIDER (**gce**, **vagrant**, **aws**), you should make sure the creation of privileged containers via the API is enabled. Check `cluster/saltbase/pillar/privilege.sls`.

DaemonSets must be enabled on your cluster. Instructions for enabling DaemonSet can be found [here](../../docs/api.md#enabling-the-extensions-group).

### Step 1: Configure New Relic Agent

The New Relic agent is configured via environment variables. We will configure these environment variables in a sourced bash script, encode the environment file data, and store it in a secret which will be loaded at container runtime.

The [New Relic Linux Server configuration page]
(https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/servers/new-relic-servers-linux/installation-configuration/configuring-servers-linux) lists all the other settings for nrsysmond.

To create an environment variable for a setting, prepend NRSYSMOND_ to its name. For example,

```console
loglevel=debug
```

translates to

```console
NRSYSMOND_loglevel=debug
```

Edit examples/newrelic/nrconfig.env and set up the environment variables for your NewRelic agent. Be sure to edit the license key field and fill in your own New Relic license key.

Now, let's vendor the config into a secret.

```console
$ cd examples/newrelic/
$ ./config-to-secret.sh
```

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: EXAMPLE newrelic-config-template.yaml -->

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: newrelic-config
type: Opaque
data:
  config: {{config_data}}
```

[Download example](newrelic-config-template.yaml?raw=true)
<!-- END MUNGE: EXAMPLE newrelic-config-template.yaml -->

The script will encode the config file and write it to `newrelic-config.yaml`.

Finally, submit the config to the cluster:

```console
$ kubectl create -f examples/newrelic/newrelic-config.yaml
```

### Step 2: Create the DaemonSet definition.

The DaemonSet definition instructs Kubernetes to place a newrelic sysmond agent on each Kubernetes node.

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: EXAMPLE newrelic-daemonset.yaml -->

```yaml
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: DaemonSet
metadata:
  name: newrelic-agent
  labels:
    tier: monitoring
    app: newrelic-agent
    version: v1
spec:
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        name: newrelic
    spec:
      # Filter to specific nodes:
      # nodeSelector:
      #  app: newrelic
      hostPID: true
      hostIPC: true
      hostNetwork: true
      containers:
        - resources:
            requests:
              cpu: 0.15
          securityContext:
            privileged: true
          env:
            - name: NRSYSMOND_logfile
              value: "/var/log/nrsysmond.log"
          image: newrelic/nrsysmond
          name: newrelic
          command: [ "bash", "-c", "source /etc/kube-newrelic/config && /usr/sbin/nrsysmond -E -F" ]
          volumeMounts:
            - name: newrelic-config
              mountPath: /etc/kube-newrelic
              readOnly: true
            - name: dev
              mountPath: /dev
            - name: run
              mountPath: /var/run/docker.sock
            - name: sys
              mountPath: /sys
            - name: log
              mountPath: /var/log
      volumes:
        - name: newrelic-config
          secret:
            secretName: newrelic-config
        - name: dev
          hostPath:
              path: /dev
        - name: run
          hostPath:
              path: /var/run/docker.sock
        - name: sys
          hostPath:
              path: /sys
        - name: log
          hostPath:
              path: /var/log
```

[Download example](newrelic-daemonset.yaml?raw=true)
<!-- END MUNGE: EXAMPLE newrelic-daemonset.yaml -->

The daemonset instructs Kubernetes to spawn pods on each node, mapping /dev/, /run/, /sys/, and /var/log to the container. It also maps the secrets we set up earlier to /etc/kube-newrelic/config, and sources them in the startup script, configuring the agent properly.

### Known issues

It's a bit cludgy to define the environment variables like we do here in these config files. There is [another issue](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/4710) to discuss adding mapping secrets to environment variables in Kubernetes.

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/examples/newrelic/README.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
