freeCodeCamp/curriculum/challenges/english/03-front-end-libraries/bootstrap/create-bootstrap-wells.english.md, before:

---
id: bad87fee1348bd9aec908848
title: Create Bootstrap Wells
challengeType: 0
forumTopicId: 16825
---

## Description
<section id='description'>
Bootstrap has a class called <code>well</code> that can create a visual sense of depth for your columns.
Nest one <code>div</code> element with the class <code>well</code> within each of your <code>col-xs-6</code> <code>div</code> elements.
</section>

## Instructions
<section id='instructions'>

</section>

## Tests
<section id='tests'>

```yml
tests:
  - text: Add a <code>div</code> element with the class <code>well</code> inside each of your <code>div</code> elements with the class <code>"col-xs-6"</code>
    testString: assert($("div.col-xs-6").not(":has(>div.well)").length < 1);
  - text: Nest both of your <code>div</code> elements with the class <code>"col-xs-6"</code> within your <code>div</code> element with the class <code>"row"</code>.
    testString: assert($("div.row > div.col-xs-6").length > 1);
  - text: Make sure all your <code>div</code> elements have closing tags.
    testString: assert(code.match(/<\/div>/g) && code.match(/<div/g) && code.match(/<\/div>/g).length === code.match(/<div/g).length);

```

</section>

## Challenge Seed
<section id='challengeSeed'>

<div id='html-seed'>

```html
<div class="container-fluid">
  <h3 class="text-primary text-center">jQuery Playground</h3>
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-xs-6">

    </div>
    <div class="col-xs-6">

    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

</div>



</section>

## Solution
<section id='solution'>

```html
<div class="container-fluid">
  <h3 class="text-primary text-center">jQuery Playground</h3>
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-xs-6">
      <div class="well"></div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-xs-6">
      <div class="well"></div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

</section>

Commit message:

freeCodeCamp: fix(curriculum): changed test text to use should for Front End Libraries (#37762)
Commit: 6fc32ab9b6cb7c8410108ccafb405646b88bb0c2

freeCodeCamp/curriculum/challenges/english/03-front-end-libraries/bootstrap/create-bootstrap-wells.english.md, after:

---
id: bad87fee1348bd9aec908848
title: Create Bootstrap Wells
challengeType: 0
forumTopicId: 16825
---

## Description
<section id='description'>
Bootstrap has a class called <code>well</code> that can create a visual sense of depth for your columns.
Nest one <code>div</code> element with the class <code>well</code> within each of your <code>col-xs-6</code> <code>div</code> elements.
</section>

## Instructions
<section id='instructions'>

</section>

## Tests
<section id='tests'>

```yml
tests:
  - text: You should add a <code>div</code> element with the class <code>well</code> inside each of your <code>div</code> elements with the class <code>"col-xs-6"</code>
    testString: assert($("div.col-xs-6").not(":has(>div.well)").length < 1);
  - text: Both of your <code>div</code> elements with the class <code>"col-xs-6"</code> should be nested within your <code>div</code> element with the class <code>"row"</code>.
    testString: assert($("div.row > div.col-xs-6").length > 1);
  - text: All your <code>div</code> elements should have closing tags.
    testString: assert(code.match(/<\/div>/g) && code.match(/<div/g) && code.match(/<\/div>/g).length === code.match(/<div/g).length);

```

</section>

## Challenge Seed
<section id='challengeSeed'>

<div id='html-seed'>

```html
<div class="container-fluid">
  <h3 class="text-primary text-center">jQuery Playground</h3>
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-xs-6">

    </div>
    <div class="col-xs-6">

    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

</div>



</section>

## Solution
<section id='solution'>

```html
<div class="container-fluid">
  <h3 class="text-primary text-center">jQuery Playground</h3>
  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-xs-6">
      <div class="well"></div>
    </div>
    <div class="col-xs-6">
      <div class="well"></div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
```

</section>
