freeCodeCamp/curriculum/challenges/english/03-front-end-libraries/bootstrap/create-a-bootstrap-button.english.md, before:

---
id: bad87fee1348cd8acdf08812
title: Create a Bootstrap Button
challengeType: 0
forumTopicId: 16811
---

## Description
<section id='description'>
Bootstrap has its own styles for <code>button</code> elements, which look much better than the plain HTML ones.
Create a new <code>button</code> element below your large kitten photo. Give it the <code>btn</code> and <code>btn-default</code> classes, as well as the text of "Like".
</section>

## Instructions
<section id='instructions'>

</section>

## Tests
<section id='tests'>

```yml
tests:
  - text: Create a new <code>button</code> element with the text "Like".
    testString: assert(new RegExp("like","gi").test($("button").text()) && ($("img.img-responsive + button.btn").length > 0));
  - text: 'Your new button should have two classes: <code>btn</code> and <code>btn-default</code>.'
    testString: assert($("button").hasClass("btn") && $("button").hasClass("btn-default"));
  - text: Make sure all your <code>button</code> elements have a closing tag.
    testString: assert(code.match(/<\/button>/g) && code.match(/<button/g) && code.match(/<\/button>/g).length === code.match(/<button/g).length);

```

</section>

## Challenge Seed
<section id='challengeSeed'>

<div id='html-seed'>

```html
<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Lobster" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<style>
  .red-text {
    color: red;
  }

  h2 {
    font-family: Lobster, Monospace;
  }

  p {
    font-size: 16px;
    font-family: Monospace;
  }

  .thick-green-border {
    border-color: green;
    border-width: 10px;
    border-style: solid;
    border-radius: 50%;
  }

  .smaller-image {
    width: 100px;
  }
</style>

<div class="container-fluid">
  <h2 class="red-text text-center">CatPhotoApp</h2>

  <p>Click here for <a href="#">cat photos</a>.</p>

  <a href="#"><img class="smaller-image thick-green-border" src="https://bit.ly/fcc-relaxing-cat" alt="A cute orange cat lying on its back."></a>

  <img src="https://bit.ly/fcc-running-cats" class="img-responsive" alt="Three kittens running towards the camera.">

  <p>Things cats love:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>cat nip</li>
    <li>laser pointers</li>
    <li>lasagna</li>
  </ul>
  <p>Top 3 things cats hate:</p>
  <ol>
    <li>flea treatment</li>
    <li>thunder</li>
    <li>other cats</li>
  </ol>
  <form action="/submit-cat-photo">
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"> Indoor</label>
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"> Outdoor</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Loving</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Lazy</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Crazy</label>
    <input type="text" placeholder="cat photo URL" required>
    <button type="submit">Submit</button>
  </form>
</div>
```

</div>



</section>

## Solution
<section id='solution'>

```html
<html>
<head>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.7/css/bootstrap.min.css">
<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Lobster" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<style>
  .red-text {
    color: red;
  }

  h2 {
    font-family: Lobster, Monospace;
  }

  p {
    font-size: 16px;
    font-family: Monospace;
  }

  .thick-green-border {
    border-color: green;
    border-width: 10px;
    border-style: solid;
    border-radius: 50%;
  }

  .smaller-image {
    width: 100px;
  }
</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="container-fluid">
  <h2 class="red-text text-center">CatPhotoApp</h2>

  <p>Click here for <a href="#">cat photos</a>.</p>

  <a href="#"><img class="smaller-image thick-green-border" src="https://bit.ly/fcc-relaxing-cat" alt="A cute orange cat lying on its back."></a>

  <img src="https://bit.ly/fcc-running-cats" class="img-responsive" alt="Three kittens running towards the camera.">

   <!-- ADD Bootstrap Styled Button -->
  <button class="btn btn-default">Like</button> 

  <p>Things cats love:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>cat nip</li>
    <li>laser pointers</li>
    <li>lasagna</li>
  </ul>
  <p>Top 3 things cats hate:</p>
  <ol>
    <li>flea treatment</li>
    <li>thunder</li>
    <li>other cats</li>
  </ol>
  <form action="/submit-cat-photo">
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"> Indoor</label>
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"> Outdoor</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Loving</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Lazy</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Crazy</label>
    <input type="text" placeholder="cat photo URL" required>
    <button type="submit">Submit</button>
  </form>
</div>
</html>
```

</section>

Commit message:

freeCodeCamp: fix(curriculum): changed test text to use should for Front End Libraries (#37762)
Commit: 6fc32ab9b6cb7c8410108ccafb405646b88bb0c2

freeCodeCamp/curriculum/challenges/english/03-front-end-libraries/bootstrap/create-a-bootstrap-button.english.md, after:

---
id: bad87fee1348cd8acdf08812
title: Create a Bootstrap Button
challengeType: 0
forumTopicId: 16811
---

## Description
<section id='description'>
Bootstrap has its own styles for <code>button</code> elements, which look much better than the plain HTML ones.
Create a new <code>button</code> element below your large kitten photo. Give it the <code>btn</code> and <code>btn-default</code> classes, as well as the text of "Like".
</section>

## Instructions
<section id='instructions'>

</section>

## Tests
<section id='tests'>

```yml
tests:
  - text: You should create a new <code>button</code> element with the text "Like".
    testString: assert(new RegExp("like","gi").test($("button").text()) && ($("img.img-responsive + button.btn").length > 0));
  - text: 'Your new button should have two classes: <code>btn</code> and <code>btn-default</code>.'
    testString: assert($("button").hasClass("btn") && $("button").hasClass("btn-default"));
  - text: All of your <code>button</code> elements should have closing tags.
    testString: assert(code.match(/<\/button>/g) && code.match(/<button/g) && code.match(/<\/button>/g).length === code.match(/<button/g).length);

```

</section>

## Challenge Seed
<section id='challengeSeed'>

<div id='html-seed'>

```html
<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Lobster" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<style>
  .red-text {
    color: red;
  }

  h2 {
    font-family: Lobster, Monospace;
  }

  p {
    font-size: 16px;
    font-family: Monospace;
  }

  .thick-green-border {
    border-color: green;
    border-width: 10px;
    border-style: solid;
    border-radius: 50%;
  }

  .smaller-image {
    width: 100px;
  }
</style>

<div class="container-fluid">
  <h2 class="red-text text-center">CatPhotoApp</h2>

  <p>Click here for <a href="#">cat photos</a>.</p>

  <a href="#"><img class="smaller-image thick-green-border" src="https://bit.ly/fcc-relaxing-cat" alt="A cute orange cat lying on its back."></a>

  <img src="https://bit.ly/fcc-running-cats" class="img-responsive" alt="Three kittens running towards the camera.">

  <p>Things cats love:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>cat nip</li>
    <li>laser pointers</li>
    <li>lasagna</li>
  </ul>
  <p>Top 3 things cats hate:</p>
  <ol>
    <li>flea treatment</li>
    <li>thunder</li>
    <li>other cats</li>
  </ol>
  <form action="/submit-cat-photo">
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"> Indoor</label>
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"> Outdoor</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Loving</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Lazy</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Crazy</label>
    <input type="text" placeholder="cat photo URL" required>
    <button type="submit">Submit</button>
  </form>
</div>
```

</div>



</section>

## Solution
<section id='solution'>

```html
<html>
<head>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.3.7/css/bootstrap.min.css">
<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Lobster" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css">
<style>
  .red-text {
    color: red;
  }

  h2 {
    font-family: Lobster, Monospace;
  }

  p {
    font-size: 16px;
    font-family: Monospace;
  }

  .thick-green-border {
    border-color: green;
    border-width: 10px;
    border-style: solid;
    border-radius: 50%;
  }

  .smaller-image {
    width: 100px;
  }
</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="container-fluid">
  <h2 class="red-text text-center">CatPhotoApp</h2>

  <p>Click here for <a href="#">cat photos</a>.</p>

  <a href="#"><img class="smaller-image thick-green-border" src="https://bit.ly/fcc-relaxing-cat" alt="A cute orange cat lying on its back."></a>

  <img src="https://bit.ly/fcc-running-cats" class="img-responsive" alt="Three kittens running towards the camera.">

   <!-- ADD Bootstrap Styled Button -->
  <button class="btn btn-default">Like</button> 

  <p>Things cats love:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>cat nip</li>
    <li>laser pointers</li>
    <li>lasagna</li>
  </ul>
  <p>Top 3 things cats hate:</p>
  <ol>
    <li>flea treatment</li>
    <li>thunder</li>
    <li>other cats</li>
  </ol>
  <form action="/submit-cat-photo">
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"> Indoor</label>
    <label><input type="radio" name="indoor-outdoor"> Outdoor</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Loving</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Lazy</label>
    <label><input type="checkbox" name="personality"> Crazy</label>
    <input type="text" placeholder="cat photo URL" required>
    <button type="submit">Submit</button>
  </form>
</div>
</html>
```

</section>
