grafana/docs/sources/permissions/restricting-access.md, before:

+++
title = "Restricting access"
weight = 500
+++

# Restricting access

The highest permission always wins so if you for example want to hide a folder or dashboard from others you need to remove the **Organization Role** based permission from the Access Control List (ACL).

- You cannot override permissions for users with the Organization Admin role. Admins always have access to everything.
- A more specific permission with a lower permission level will not have any effect if a more general rule exists with higher permission level. You need to remove or lower the permission level of the more general rule.

Here are some examples of how Grafana resolves multiple permissions.

## Example 1 (user1 has the Editor Role)

Permissions for a dashboard:

- Everyone with Editor role can edit
- user1 can view

Result: `user1` has Edit permission as the highest permission always wins.

## Example 2 (user1 has the Viewer Role and is a member of team1)

Permissions for a dashboard:

- Everyone with Viewer role can view
- user1 Can Edit
- team1 Can Admin

Result: `user1` has Admin permission as the highest permission always wins.

## Example 3

Permissions for a dashboard:

- user1 can admin (inherited from parent folder)
- user1 can edit

Result: You cannot override to a lower permission. `user1` has Admin permission as the highest permission always wins.

Commit message:

grafana: Docs: Document fine-grained access control (#33563)
Commit: 676ddac088aa179bed643582aeadd4d80eef60a0

grafana/docs/sources/permissions/restricting-access.md, after:

+++
title = "Restricting access"
weight = 500
+++

# Restricting access

> Refer to [Fine-grained access Control]({{< relref "../enterprise/access-control/_index.md" >}}) in Grafana Enterprise to understand how to use fine-grained permissions to restrict access.

The highest permission always wins so if you for example want to hide a folder or dashboard from others you need to remove the **Organization Role** based permission from the Access Control List (ACL).

- You cannot override permissions for users with the Organization Admin role. Admins always have access to everything.
- A more specific permission with a lower permission level will not have any effect if a more general rule exists with higher permission level. You need to remove or lower the permission level of the more general rule.

Here are some examples of how Grafana resolves multiple permissions.

## Example 1 (user1 has the Editor Role)

Permissions for a dashboard:

- Everyone with Editor role can edit
- user1 can view

Result: `user1` has Edit permission as the highest permission always wins.

## Example 2 (user1 has the Viewer Role and is a member of team1)

Permissions for a dashboard:

- Everyone with Viewer role can view
- user1 Can Edit
- team1 Can Admin

Result: `user1` has Admin permission as the highest permission always wins.

## Example 3

Permissions for a dashboard:

- user1 can admin (inherited from parent folder)
- user1 can edit

Result: You cannot override to a lower permission. `user1` has Admin permission as the highest permission always wins.
