grafana/docs/sources/alerting/notifications.md, before:

+++
title = "Alerting Notifications"
description = "Alerting Notifications Guide"
keywords = ["Grafana", "alerting", "guide", "notifications"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "Notifications"
parent = "alerting"
weight = 2
+++


# Alert Notifications

> Alerting is only available in Grafana v4.0 and above.

When an alert changes state, it sends out notifications. Each alert rule can have
multiple notifications. In order to add a notification to an alert rule you first need
to add and configure a `notification` channel (can be email, PagerDuty or other integration). This is done from the Notification Channels page.

## Notification Channel Setup

{{< imgbox max-width="30%" img="/img/docs/v50/alerts_notifications_menu.png" caption="Alerting Notification Channels" >}}

On the Notification Channels page hit the `New Channel` button to go the page where you
can configure and setup a new Notification Channel.

You specify a name and a type, and type specific options. You can also test the notification to make
sure it's setup correctly.

### Send on all alerts

When checked, this option will nofity for all alert rules - existing and new.

## Supported Notification Types

Grafana ships with the following set of notification types:

### Email

To enable email notifications you have to setup [SMTP settings](/installation/configuration/#smtp)
in the Grafana config. Email notifications will upload an image of the alert graph to an
external image destination if available or fallback to attaching the image to the email.

### Slack

{{< imgbox max-width="40%" img="/img/docs/v4/slack_notification.png" caption="Alerting Slack Notification" >}}

To set up slack you need to configure an incoming webhook url at slack. You can follow their guide on how
to do that [here](https://api.slack.com/incoming-webhooks). If you want to include screenshots of the firing alerts
in the Slack messages you have to configure either the [external image destination](#external-image-store) in Grafana,
or a bot integration via Slack Apps. Follow Slack's guide to set up a bot integration and use the token provided
(https://api.slack.com/bot-users), which starts with "xoxb".

Setting | Description
---------- | -----------
Recipient | allows you to override the Slack recipient.
Mention | make it possible to include a mention in the Slack notification sent by Grafana. Ex @here or @channel
Token | If provided, Grafana will upload the generated image via Slack's file.upload API method, not the external image destination.

If you are using the token for a slack bot, then you have to invite the bot to the channel you want to send notifications and add the channel to the recipient field.

### PagerDuty

To set up PagerDuty, all you have to do is to provide an API key.

Setting | Description
---------- | -----------
Integration Key | Integration key for PagerDuty.
Auto resolve incidents | Resolve incidents in PagerDuty once the alert goes back to ok

### Webhook

The webhook notification is a simple way to send information about a state change over HTTP to a custom endpoint.
Using this notification you could integrate Grafana into a system of your choosing.

Example json body:

```json
{
  "title": "My alert",
  "ruleId": 1,
  "ruleName": "Load peaking!",
  "ruleUrl": "http://url.to.grafana/db/dashboard/my_dashboard?panelId=2",
  "state": "alerting",
  "imageUrl": "http://s3.image.url",
  "message": "Load is peaking. Make sure the traffic is real and spin up more webfronts",
  "evalMatches": [
    {
      "metric": "requests",
      "tags": {},
      "value": 122
    }
  ]
}
```

- **state** - The possible values for alert state are: `ok`, `paused`, `alerting`, `pending`, `no_data`.

### DingDing/DingTalk

[Instructions in Chinese](https://open-doc.dingtalk.com/docs/doc.htm?spm=a219a.7629140.0.0.p2lr6t&treeId=257&articleId=105733&docType=1).

In DingTalk PC Client:

1. Click "more" icon on left bottom of the panel.

2. Click "Robot Manage" item in the pop menu, there will be a new panel call "Robot Manage".

3. In the  "Robot Manage" panel, select "customised: customised robot with Webhook".

4. In the next new panel named "robot detail", click "Add" button.

5. In "Add Robot" panel, input a nickname for the robot and select a "message group" which the robot will join in. click "next".

6. There will be a Webhook URL in the panel, looks like this: https://oapi.dingtalk.com/robot/send?access_token=xxxxxxxxx. Copy this URL to the grafana Dingtalk setting page and then click "finish".

Dingtalk supports the following "message type": `text`, `link` and `markdown`. Only the `text` message type is supported.

### Kafka

Notifications can be sent to a Kafka topic from Grafana using the [Kafka REST Proxy](https://docs.confluent.io/1.0/kafka-rest/docs/index.html).
There are a couple of configuration options which need to be set up in Grafana UI under Kafka Settings:

1. Kafka REST Proxy endpoint.

2. Kafka Topic.

Once these two properties are set, you can send the alerts to Kafka for further processing or throttling.

### All supported notifier

Name | Type |Support images
-----|------------ | ------
Slack | `slack` | yes
Pagerduty | `pagerduty` | yes
Email | `email` | yes
Webhook | `webhook` | link
Kafka | `kafka` | no
Hipchat | `hipchat` | yes
VictorOps | `victorops` | yes
Sensu | `sensu` | yes
OpsGenie | `opsgenie` | yes
Threema | `threema` | yes
Pushover | `pushover` | no
Telegram | `telegram` | no
Line | `line` | no
Prometheus Alertmanager | `prometheus-alertmanager` | no



# Enable images in notifications {#external-image-store}

Grafana can render the panel associated with the alert rule and include that in the notification. Most Notification Channels require that this image be publicly accessable (Slack and PagerDuty for example). In order to include images in alert notifications, Grafana can upload the image to an image store. It currently supports
Amazon S3, Webdav, Google Cloud Storage and Azure Blob Storage. So to set that up you need to configure the [external image uploader](/installation/configuration/#external-image-storage) in your grafana-server ini config file.

Be aware that some notifiers requires public access to the image to be able to include it in the notification. So make sure to enable public access to the images. If your using local image uploader, your Grafana instance need to be accessible by the internet.

Currently only the Email Channels attaches images if no external image store is specified. To include images in alert notifications for other channels then you need to set up an external image store.

This is an optional requirement. You can get Slack and email notifications without setting this up.

# Configure the link back to Grafana from alert notifications

All alert notifications contain a link back to the triggered alert in the Grafana instance.
This url is based on the [domain](/installation/configuration/#domain) setting in Grafana.

Commit message:

grafana: docs: not about email notifications and local img store
Commit: 2743e8be20cc36d48370f78df140a42ff209cb60

grafana/docs/sources/alerting/notifications.md, after:

+++
title = "Alerting Notifications"
description = "Alerting Notifications Guide"
keywords = ["Grafana", "alerting", "guide", "notifications"]
type = "docs"
[menu.docs]
name = "Notifications"
parent = "alerting"
weight = 2
+++


# Alert Notifications

> Alerting is only available in Grafana v4.0 and above.

When an alert changes state, it sends out notifications. Each alert rule can have
multiple notifications. In order to add a notification to an alert rule you first need
to add and configure a `notification` channel (can be email, PagerDuty or other integration). This is done from the Notification Channels page.

## Notification Channel Setup

{{< imgbox max-width="30%" img="/img/docs/v50/alerts_notifications_menu.png" caption="Alerting Notification Channels" >}}

On the Notification Channels page hit the `New Channel` button to go the page where you
can configure and setup a new Notification Channel.

You specify a name and a type, and type specific options. You can also test the notification to make
sure it's setup correctly.

### Send on all alerts

When checked, this option will nofity for all alert rules - existing and new.

## Supported Notification Types

Grafana ships with the following set of notification types:

### Email

To enable email notifications you have to setup [SMTP settings](/installation/configuration/#smtp)
in the Grafana config. Email notifications will upload an image of the alert graph to an
external image destination if available or fallback to attaching the image to the email.
Be aware that if you use the `local` image storage email servers and clients might not be
able to access the image.

### Slack

{{< imgbox max-width="40%" img="/img/docs/v4/slack_notification.png" caption="Alerting Slack Notification" >}}

To set up slack you need to configure an incoming webhook url at slack. You can follow their guide on how
to do that [here](https://api.slack.com/incoming-webhooks). If you want to include screenshots of the firing alerts
in the Slack messages you have to configure either the [external image destination](#external-image-store) in Grafana,
or a bot integration via Slack Apps. Follow Slack's guide to set up a bot integration and use the token provided
(https://api.slack.com/bot-users), which starts with "xoxb".

Setting | Description
---------- | -----------
Recipient | allows you to override the Slack recipient.
Mention | make it possible to include a mention in the Slack notification sent by Grafana. Ex @here or @channel
Token | If provided, Grafana will upload the generated image via Slack's file.upload API method, not the external image destination.

If you are using the token for a slack bot, then you have to invite the bot to the channel you want to send notifications and add the channel to the recipient field.

### PagerDuty

To set up PagerDuty, all you have to do is to provide an API key.

Setting | Description
---------- | -----------
Integration Key | Integration key for PagerDuty.
Auto resolve incidents | Resolve incidents in PagerDuty once the alert goes back to ok

### Webhook

The webhook notification is a simple way to send information about a state change over HTTP to a custom endpoint.
Using this notification you could integrate Grafana into a system of your choosing.

Example json body:

```json
{
  "title": "My alert",
  "ruleId": 1,
  "ruleName": "Load peaking!",
  "ruleUrl": "http://url.to.grafana/db/dashboard/my_dashboard?panelId=2",
  "state": "alerting",
  "imageUrl": "http://s3.image.url",
  "message": "Load is peaking. Make sure the traffic is real and spin up more webfronts",
  "evalMatches": [
    {
      "metric": "requests",
      "tags": {},
      "value": 122
    }
  ]
}
```

- **state** - The possible values for alert state are: `ok`, `paused`, `alerting`, `pending`, `no_data`.

### DingDing/DingTalk

[Instructions in Chinese](https://open-doc.dingtalk.com/docs/doc.htm?spm=a219a.7629140.0.0.p2lr6t&treeId=257&articleId=105733&docType=1).

In DingTalk PC Client:

1. Click "more" icon on left bottom of the panel.

2. Click "Robot Manage" item in the pop menu, there will be a new panel call "Robot Manage".

3. In the  "Robot Manage" panel, select "customised: customised robot with Webhook".

4. In the next new panel named "robot detail", click "Add" button.

5. In "Add Robot" panel, input a nickname for the robot and select a "message group" which the robot will join in. click "next".

6. There will be a Webhook URL in the panel, looks like this: https://oapi.dingtalk.com/robot/send?access_token=xxxxxxxxx. Copy this URL to the grafana Dingtalk setting page and then click "finish".

Dingtalk supports the following "message type": `text`, `link` and `markdown`. Only the `text` message type is supported.

### Kafka

Notifications can be sent to a Kafka topic from Grafana using the [Kafka REST Proxy](https://docs.confluent.io/1.0/kafka-rest/docs/index.html).
There are a couple of configuration options which need to be set up in Grafana UI under Kafka Settings:

1. Kafka REST Proxy endpoint.

2. Kafka Topic.

Once these two properties are set, you can send the alerts to Kafka for further processing or throttling.

### All supported notifier

Name | Type |Support images
-----|------------ | ------
Slack | `slack` | yes
Pagerduty | `pagerduty` | yes
Email | `email` | yes
Webhook | `webhook` | link
Kafka | `kafka` | no
Hipchat | `hipchat` | yes
VictorOps | `victorops` | yes
Sensu | `sensu` | yes
OpsGenie | `opsgenie` | yes
Threema | `threema` | yes
Pushover | `pushover` | no
Telegram | `telegram` | no
Line | `line` | no
Prometheus Alertmanager | `prometheus-alertmanager` | no



# Enable images in notifications {#external-image-store}

Grafana can render the panel associated with the alert rule and include that in the notification. Most Notification Channels require that this image be publicly accessable (Slack and PagerDuty for example). In order to include images in alert notifications, Grafana can upload the image to an image store. It currently supports
Amazon S3, Webdav, Google Cloud Storage and Azure Blob Storage. So to set that up you need to configure the [external image uploader](/installation/configuration/#external-image-storage) in your grafana-server ini config file.

Be aware that some notifiers requires public access to the image to be able to include it in the notification. So make sure to enable public access to the images. If your using local image uploader, your Grafana instance need to be accessible by the internet.

Currently only the Email Channels attaches images if no external image store is specified. To include images in alert notifications for other channels then you need to set up an external image store.

This is an optional requirement. You can get Slack and email notifications without setting this up.

# Configure the link back to Grafana from alert notifications

All alert notifications contain a link back to the triggered alert in the Grafana instance.
This url is based on the [domain](/installation/configuration/#domain) setting in Grafana.
