freeCodeCamp/curriculum/challenges/english/07-scientific-computing-with-python/learn-regular-expressions-by-building-a-password-generator/6577319039f4f7de9251b822.md, before:

---
id: 6577319039f4f7de9251b822
title: Step 61
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-61
---

# --description--

Instead of using a loop and a counter variable, you can achieve the same result with a different approach.

Replace your existing `for` loop and two `if` statements with a single `if` statement. For the `if` condition, use a list created with the list comprehension syntax.

The list stores the results of evaluating the expression `constraint <= len(re.findall(pattern, password))` for each `constraint`-`pattern` tuple in the `constraints` list.

# --hints--

You should replace your existing `for` loop and two `if` statements with a single `if` statement. 

```js
({ test: () => {
  assert.match(code, /^(\s{8})if\s+.+:\s*^\1\s{4}break/ms);
  assert.isFalse(/if\s+count\s*==\s*4\s*:/.test(code));
} })
```

Your new `if` condition should be a list comprehension that is the result of evaluating the expression `constraint <= len(re.findall(pattern, password))` for each `constraint`-`pattern` tuple in the `constraints` list.

```js
({ test: () => assert.match(code, /^(\s{8})if\s*\[\s*constraint\s*<=\s*len\s*\(\s*re\.findall\s*\(\s*pattern\s*,\s*password\s*\)\s*\)\s+for\s+constraint\s*,\s*pattern\s+in\s+constraints\s*\]\s*:\s*^\1\s{4}break/m) })
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```py
import re
import secrets
import string


def generate_password(length, nums, special_chars, uppercase, lowercase):
    # Define the possible characters for the password
    letters = string.ascii_letters
    digits = string.digits
    symbols = string.punctuation

    # Combine all characters
    all_characters = letters + digits + symbols

    while True:
        password = ''
        # Generate password
        for _ in range(length):
            password += secrets.choice(all_characters)
       
        constraints = [
            (nums, r'\d'),
            (lowercase, r'[a-z]'),
            (uppercase, r'[A-Z]'),            
            (special_chars, fr'[{symbols}]')            
        ]

        # Check constraints
        count = 0
--fcc-editable-region--
        for constraint, pattern in constraints:
            if constraint <= len(re.findall(pattern, password)):
                count += 1
            
        if count == 4:
--fcc-editable-region--
            break

    return password

# new_password = generate_password(8)
# print(new_password)
```

Commit message:

freeCodeCamp: fix(curriculum/python): improve password generator project (#53456)
Commit: cf70a9d0e34f9cfaf3ff436dffcfa86f688effa3

freeCodeCamp/curriculum/challenges/english/07-scientific-computing-with-python/learn-regular-expressions-by-building-a-password-generator/6577319039f4f7de9251b822.md, after:

---
id: 6577319039f4f7de9251b822
title: Step 61
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-61
---

# --description--

Instead of using a loop and a counter variable, you can achieve the same result with a different approach, which you are going to implement in the next few steps.

`all()` is a built-in Python function that returns `True` if all the elements inside a given iterable evaluate to `True`. Otherwise, it returns `False`.

Replace your existing `for` loop and two `if` statements with a single `if` statement. For the `if` condition, use a call to the `all()` function and pass an empty list as the argument to the function call.

# --hints--

You should replace your existing `for` loop and two `if` statements with a single `if` statement. 

```js
({ test: () => {
  assert.match(code, /^(\s{8})if\s+.+:\s*^\1\s{4}break/ms);
  assert.isFalse(/if\s+count\s*==\s*4\s*:/.test(code));
} })
```

Your new `if` condition should be `all([])`.

```js
({ test: () => assert(runPython(`
  _Node(_code).find_function("generate_password").find_while("True").find_while_bodies()[0].find_if("all([])")
`)) })
```

You should have `break` inside your new `if` body.

```js
({ test: () => assert(runPython(`
  _Node(_code).find_function("generate_password").find_while("True").find_while_bodies()[0].find_if("all([])").find_if_bodies()[0].is_equivalent("break")
`)) })
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```py
import re
import secrets
import string


def generate_password(length, nums, special_chars, uppercase, lowercase):
    # Define the possible characters for the password
    letters = string.ascii_letters
    digits = string.digits
    symbols = string.punctuation

    # Combine all characters
    all_characters = letters + digits + symbols

    while True:
        password = ''
        # Generate password
        for _ in range(length):
            password += secrets.choice(all_characters)
       
        constraints = [
            (nums, r'\d'),
            (lowercase, r'[a-z]'),
            (uppercase, r'[A-Z]'),            
            (special_chars, fr'[{symbols}]')            
        ]

        # Check constraints
        count = 0
--fcc-editable-region--
        for constraint, pattern in constraints:
            if constraint <= len(re.findall(pattern, password)):
                count += 1
            
        if count == 4:
--fcc-editable-region--
            break

    return password

# new_password = generate_password(8)
# print(new_password)
```
