kubernetes/examples/fibre_channel/README.md, before:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->


<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

## Step 1. Setting up Fibre Channel Target

On your FC SAN Zone manager, allocate and mask LUNs so Kubernetes hosts can access them.

## Step 2. Creating the Pod with Fibre Channel persistent storage

Once you have installed Fibre Channel initiator and new Kubernetes, you can create a pod based on my example [fc.yaml](fc.yaml). In the pod JSON, you need to provide *targetWWNs* (array of Fibre Channel target's World Wide Names), *lun*, and the type of the filesystem that has been created on the lun, and *readOnly* boolean.

Once your pod is created, run it on the Kubernetes master:

```console
kubectl create -f ./your_new_pod.json
```

Here is my command and output:

```console
# kubectl create -f examples/fibre_channel/fc.yaml
# kubectl get pods
NAME      READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
fcpd      2/2       Running   0          10m
```

On the Kubernetes host, I got these in mount output

```console
#mount |grep /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io
/dev/mapper/360a98000324669436c2b45666c567946 on /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/fc/500a0982991b8dc5-lun-2 type ext4 (ro,relatime,seclabel,stripe=16,data=ordered)
/dev/mapper/360a98000324669436c2b45666c567944 on /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/fc/500a0982991b8dc5-lun-1 type ext4 (rw,relatime,seclabel,stripe=16,data=ordered)
```

If you ssh to that machine, you can run `docker ps` to see the actual pod.

```console
# docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                                  COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS               NAMES
090ac457ddc2        kubernetes/pause                       "/pause"            12 minutes ago      Up 12 minutes                           k8s_fcpd-rw.aae720ec_fcpd_default_4024318f-4121-11e5-a294-e839352ddd54_99eb5415   
5e2629cf3e7b        kubernetes/pause                       "/pause"            12 minutes ago      Up 12 minutes                           k8s_fcpd-ro.857720dc_fcpd_default_4024318f-4121-11e5-a294-e839352ddd54_c0175742   
2948683253f7        gcr.io/google_containers/pause:0.8.0   "/pause"            12 minutes ago      Up 12 minutes                           k8s_POD.7be6d81d_fcpd_default_4024318f-4121-11e5-a294-e839352ddd54_8d9dd7bf       
```



<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: IS_VERSIONED -->
<!-- TAG IS_VERSIONED -->
<!-- END MUNGE: IS_VERSIONED -->


<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/examples/fibre_channel/README.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->

Commit message:

kubernetes: Merge pull request #27218 from dchen1107/docker
Commit: 5b5c8076ccbc4babc7af6c7619a16d5a80b44ec2

kubernetes/examples/fibre_channel/README.md, after:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

<!-- BEGIN STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">

<h2>PLEASE NOTE: This document applies to the HEAD of the source tree</h2>

If you are using a released version of Kubernetes, you should
refer to the docs that go with that version.

<!-- TAG RELEASE_LINK, added by the munger automatically -->
<strong>
The latest release of this document can be found
[here](http://releases.k8s.io/release-1.2/examples/fibre_channel/README.md).

Documentation for other releases can be found at
[releases.k8s.io](http://releases.k8s.io).
</strong>
--

<!-- END STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

## Step 1. Setting up Fibre Channel Target

On your FC SAN Zone manager, allocate and mask LUNs so Kubernetes hosts can access them.

## Step 2. Creating the Pod with Fibre Channel persistent storage

Once you have installed Fibre Channel initiator and new Kubernetes, you can create a pod based on my example [fc.yaml](fc.yaml). In the pod JSON, you need to provide *targetWWNs* (array of Fibre Channel target's World Wide Names), *lun*, and the type of the filesystem that has been created on the lun, and *readOnly* boolean.

Once your pod is created, run it on the Kubernetes master:

```console
kubectl create -f ./your_new_pod.json
```

Here is my command and output:

```console
# kubectl create -f examples/fibre_channel/fc.yaml
# kubectl get pods
NAME      READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
fcpd      2/2       Running   0          10m
```

On the Kubernetes host, I got these in mount output

```console
#mount |grep /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io
/dev/mapper/360a98000324669436c2b45666c567946 on /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/fc/500a0982991b8dc5-lun-2 type ext4 (ro,relatime,seclabel,stripe=16,data=ordered)
/dev/mapper/360a98000324669436c2b45666c567944 on /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/fc/500a0982991b8dc5-lun-1 type ext4 (rw,relatime,seclabel,stripe=16,data=ordered)
```

If you ssh to that machine, you can run `docker ps` to see the actual pod.

```console
# docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                                  COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS               NAMES
090ac457ddc2        kubernetes/pause                       "/pause"            12 minutes ago      Up 12 minutes                           k8s_fcpd-rw.aae720ec_fcpd_default_4024318f-4121-11e5-a294-e839352ddd54_99eb5415   
5e2629cf3e7b        kubernetes/pause                       "/pause"            12 minutes ago      Up 12 minutes                           k8s_fcpd-ro.857720dc_fcpd_default_4024318f-4121-11e5-a294-e839352ddd54_c0175742   
2948683253f7        gcr.io/google_containers/pause:0.8.0   "/pause"            12 minutes ago      Up 12 minutes                           k8s_POD.7be6d81d_fcpd_default_4024318f-4121-11e5-a294-e839352ddd54_8d9dd7bf       
```

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/examples/fibre_channel/README.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
