kubernetes/examples/iscsi/README.md, before:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->


<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

## Introduction

The Kubernetes iSCSI implementation can connect to iSCSI devices via open-iscsi and multipathd on Linux.
Currently supported features are
  * Connecting to one portal
  * Mounting a device directly or via multipathd
  * Formatting and partitioning any new device connected

## Prerequisites

This example expects there to be a working iSCSI target to connect to.
If there isn't one in place then it is possible to setup a software version on Linux by following these guides

  * [Setup a iSCSI target on Fedora](http://www.server-world.info/en/note?os=Fedora_21&p=iscsi)
  * [Install the iSCSI initiator on Fedora](http://www.server-world.info/en/note?os=Fedora_21&p=iscsi&f=2)
  * [Install multipathd for mpio support if required](http://www.linuxstories.eu/2014/07/how-to-setup-dm-multipath-on-rhel.html)


## Creating the pod with iSCSI persistent storage

Once you have configured the iSCSI initiator, you can create a pod based on the example *iscsi.yaml*. In the pod YAML, you need to provide *targetPortal* (the iSCSI target's **IP** address and *port* if not the default port 3260), target's *iqn*, *lun*, and the type of the filesystem that has been created on the lun, and *readOnly* boolean. No initiator information is required.

If you want to use an iSCSI offload card or other open-iscsi transports besides tcp, setup an iSCSI interface and provide *iscsiInterface* in the pod YAML. The default name for an iscsi iface (open-iscsi parameter iface.iscsi\_ifacename) is in the format transport\_name.hwaddress when generated by iscsiadm. See [open-iscsi](http://www.open-iscsi.org/docs/README) or [openstack](http://docs.openstack.org/kilo/config-reference/content/iscsi-iface-config.html) for detailed configuration information.

**Note:** If you have followed the instructions in the links above you
may have partitioned the device, the iSCSI volume plugin does not
currently support partitions so format the device as one partition or leave the device raw and Kubernetes will partition and format it one first mount.


Once the pod config is created, run it on the Kubernetes master:

```console
kubectl create -f ./your_new_pod.yaml
```

Here is the example pod created and expected output:

```console
# kubectl create -f examples/iscsi/iscsi.yaml
# kubectl get pods
NAME      READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
iscsipd   2/2       RUNNING   0           2m
```

On the Kubernetes node, verify the mount output

For a non mpio device the output should look like the following

```console
# mount |grep kub
/dev/sdb on /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/iscsi/10.0.2.15:3260-iqn.2001-04.com.example:storage.kube.sys1.xyz-lun-0 type ext4 (ro,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/sdb on /var/lib/kubelet/pods/f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387/volumes/kubernetes.io~iscsi/iscsipd-ro type ext4 (ro,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/sdc on /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/iscsi/10.0.2.15:3260-iqn.2001-04.com.example:storage.kube.sys1.xyz-lun-1 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/sdc on /var/lib/kubelet/pods/f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387/volumes/kubernetes.io~iscsi/iscsipd-rw type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
```

And for a node with mpio enabled the expected output would be similar to the following

```console
# mount |grep kub
/dev/mapper/mpatha on /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/iscsi/10.0.2.15:3260-iqn.2001-04.com.example:storage.kube.sys1.xyz-lun-0 type ext4 (ro,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/mapper/mpatha on /var/lib/kubelet/pods/f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387/volumes/kubernetes.io~iscsi/iscsipd-ro type ext4 (ro,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/mapper/mpathb on /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/iscsi/10.0.2.15:3260-iqn.2001-04.com.example:storage.kube.sys1.xyz-lun-1 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/mapper/mpathb on /var/lib/kubelet/pods/f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387/volumes/kubernetes.io~iscsi/iscsipd-rw type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
```


If you ssh to that machine, you can run `docker ps` to see the actual pod.

```console
# docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                                  COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS               NAMES
f855336407f4        kubernetes/pause                       "/pause"            6 minutes ago       Up 6 minutes                            k8s_iscsipd-ro.d130ec3e_iscsipd_default_f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387_5409a4cb
3b8a772515d2        kubernetes/pause                       "/pause"            6 minutes ago       Up 6 minutes                            k8s_iscsipd-rw.ed58ec4e_iscsipd_default_f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387_d25592c5
```

Run *docker inspect* and verify the container mounted the host directory into the their */mnt/iscsipd* directory.

```console
# docker inspect --format '{{ range .Mounts }}{{ if eq .Destination "/mnt/iscsipd" }}{{ .Source }}{{ end }}{{ end }}' f855336407f4
/var/lib/kubelet/pods/f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387/volumes/kubernetes.io~iscsi/iscsipd-ro

# docker inspect --format '{{ range .Mounts }}{{ if eq .Destination "/mnt/iscsipd" }}{{ .Source }}{{ end }}{{ end }}' 3b8a772515d2
/var/lib/kubelet/pods/f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387/volumes/kubernetes.io~iscsi/iscsipd-rw
```




<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: IS_VERSIONED -->
<!-- TAG IS_VERSIONED -->
<!-- END MUNGE: IS_VERSIONED -->


<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/examples/iscsi/README.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->

Commit message:

kubernetes: Merge pull request #27218 from dchen1107/docker
Commit: 5b5c8076ccbc4babc7af6c7619a16d5a80b44ec2

kubernetes/examples/iscsi/README.md, after:

<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

<!-- BEGIN STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">
<img src="http://kubernetes.io/img/warning.png" alt="WARNING"
     width="25" height="25">

<h2>PLEASE NOTE: This document applies to the HEAD of the source tree</h2>

If you are using a released version of Kubernetes, you should
refer to the docs that go with that version.

<!-- TAG RELEASE_LINK, added by the munger automatically -->
<strong>
The latest release of this document can be found
[here](http://releases.k8s.io/release-1.2/examples/iscsi/README.md).

Documentation for other releases can be found at
[releases.k8s.io](http://releases.k8s.io).
</strong>
--

<!-- END STRIP_FOR_RELEASE -->

<!-- END MUNGE: UNVERSIONED_WARNING -->

## Introduction

The Kubernetes iSCSI implementation can connect to iSCSI devices via open-iscsi and multipathd on Linux.
Currently supported features are
  * Connecting to one portal
  * Mounting a device directly or via multipathd
  * Formatting and partitioning any new device connected

## Prerequisites

This example expects there to be a working iSCSI target to connect to.
If there isn't one in place then it is possible to setup a software version on Linux by following these guides

  * [Setup a iSCSI target on Fedora](http://www.server-world.info/en/note?os=Fedora_21&p=iscsi)
  * [Install the iSCSI initiator on Fedora](http://www.server-world.info/en/note?os=Fedora_21&p=iscsi&f=2)
  * [Install multipathd for mpio support if required](http://www.linuxstories.eu/2014/07/how-to-setup-dm-multipath-on-rhel.html)


## Creating the pod with iSCSI persistent storage

Once you have configured the iSCSI initiator, you can create a pod based on the example *iscsi.yaml*. In the pod YAML, you need to provide *targetPortal* (the iSCSI target's **IP** address and *port* if not the default port 3260), target's *iqn*, *lun*, and the type of the filesystem that has been created on the lun, and *readOnly* boolean. No initiator information is required.

If you want to use an iSCSI offload card or other open-iscsi transports besides tcp, setup an iSCSI interface and provide *iscsiInterface* in the pod YAML. The default name for an iscsi iface (open-iscsi parameter iface.iscsi\_ifacename) is in the format transport\_name.hwaddress when generated by iscsiadm. See [open-iscsi](http://www.open-iscsi.org/docs/README) or [openstack](http://docs.openstack.org/kilo/config-reference/content/iscsi-iface-config.html) for detailed configuration information.

**Note:** If you have followed the instructions in the links above you
may have partitioned the device, the iSCSI volume plugin does not
currently support partitions so format the device as one partition or leave the device raw and Kubernetes will partition and format it one first mount.


Once the pod config is created, run it on the Kubernetes master:

```console
kubectl create -f ./your_new_pod.yaml
```

Here is the example pod created and expected output:

```console
# kubectl create -f examples/iscsi/iscsi.yaml
# kubectl get pods
NAME      READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
iscsipd   2/2       RUNNING   0           2m
```

On the Kubernetes node, verify the mount output

For a non mpio device the output should look like the following

```console
# mount |grep kub
/dev/sdb on /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/iscsi/10.0.2.15:3260-iqn.2001-04.com.example:storage.kube.sys1.xyz-lun-0 type ext4 (ro,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/sdb on /var/lib/kubelet/pods/f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387/volumes/kubernetes.io~iscsi/iscsipd-ro type ext4 (ro,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/sdc on /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/iscsi/10.0.2.15:3260-iqn.2001-04.com.example:storage.kube.sys1.xyz-lun-1 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/sdc on /var/lib/kubelet/pods/f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387/volumes/kubernetes.io~iscsi/iscsipd-rw type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
```

And for a node with mpio enabled the expected output would be similar to the following

```console
# mount |grep kub
/dev/mapper/mpatha on /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/iscsi/10.0.2.15:3260-iqn.2001-04.com.example:storage.kube.sys1.xyz-lun-0 type ext4 (ro,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/mapper/mpatha on /var/lib/kubelet/pods/f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387/volumes/kubernetes.io~iscsi/iscsipd-ro type ext4 (ro,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/mapper/mpathb on /var/lib/kubelet/plugins/kubernetes.io/iscsi/10.0.2.15:3260-iqn.2001-04.com.example:storage.kube.sys1.xyz-lun-1 type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
/dev/mapper/mpathb on /var/lib/kubelet/pods/f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387/volumes/kubernetes.io~iscsi/iscsipd-rw type ext4 (rw,relatime,data=ordered)
```


If you ssh to that machine, you can run `docker ps` to see the actual pod.

```console
# docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                                  COMMAND             CREATED             STATUS              PORTS               NAMES
f855336407f4        kubernetes/pause                       "/pause"            6 minutes ago       Up 6 minutes                            k8s_iscsipd-ro.d130ec3e_iscsipd_default_f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387_5409a4cb
3b8a772515d2        kubernetes/pause                       "/pause"            6 minutes ago       Up 6 minutes                            k8s_iscsipd-rw.ed58ec4e_iscsipd_default_f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387_d25592c5
```

Run *docker inspect* and verify the container mounted the host directory into the their */mnt/iscsipd* directory.

```console
# docker inspect --format '{{ range .Mounts }}{{ if eq .Destination "/mnt/iscsipd" }}{{ .Source }}{{ end }}{{ end }}' f855336407f4
/var/lib/kubelet/pods/f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387/volumes/kubernetes.io~iscsi/iscsipd-ro

# docker inspect --format '{{ range .Mounts }}{{ if eq .Destination "/mnt/iscsipd" }}{{ .Source }}{{ end }}{{ end }}' 3b8a772515d2
/var/lib/kubelet/pods/f527ca5b-6d87-11e5-aa7e-080027ff6387/volumes/kubernetes.io~iscsi/iscsipd-rw
```


<!-- BEGIN MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/examples/iscsi/README.md?pixel)]()
<!-- END MUNGE: GENERATED_ANALYTICS -->
