kubernetes/staging/src/k8s.io/client-go/README.md, before:

This _staging/src/k8s.io/client-go directory is the staging area of the client repo. It contains a versioned client, tools built around the client like the reflector, and all the client dependencies. The content will be periodically published to k8s.io/client-go repo.
The staged content is copied from the main repo, i.e., k8s.io/kubernetes, with directory rearrangement and necessary rewritings. To sync the content with the latest code in your local k8s.io/kubernetes, you need to run `godep restore` in k8s root directory, then run _staging/src/k8s.io/client-go/copy.sh.
vendor/k8s.io/client-go is a symlink pointing to this staging area, so to use the packages in the staging area, you can import it as "vendor/client-go/<package-name>", as if the client were vendored. The client will be vendored from k8s.io/client-go for real after the test matrix is converted to vendor k8s components.


[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/_staging/src/k8s.io/client-go/README.md?pixel)]()


[![Analytics](https://kubernetes-site.appspot.com/UA-36037335-10/GitHub/staging/src/k8s.io/client-go/README.md?pixel)]()

Commit message:

kubernetes: Merge pull request #30738 from caesarxuchao/copy-keep-vendor
Commit: d836b248b2f48cd2937cae2384d2ef5e348b0893

kubernetes/staging/src/k8s.io/client-go/README.md, after:

# client-go

Go clients for talking to a [kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io/) cluster.

### What's included

* The `kubernetes` package contains the clientset to access Kubernetes API.
* The `discovery` package is used to discover APIs supported by a Kubernetes API server.
* The `dynamic` package contains a dynamic client that can perform generic operations on arbitrary Kubernetes API objects.
* The `transport` package is used to set up auth and start a connection.
* The `tools/cache` package is useful for writing controllers.

### Releases

Each top-level folder (e.g., 1.4) contains a release of clients and their dependencies.

client-go has the same release cycle as the Kubernetes main repository. For example, in the 1.4 release cycle, the contents in `1.4/` folder are subjected to changes. Once 1.4 is released, new changes will go into the `1.5/` folder. We will make great efforts to not change the public interface of a version of the client once that version has been released. We may change the interface between versions. Old versions of the client will be retained for two release cycles.

### How to get it

You can `go get` a release of client-go, e.g., `go get k8s.io/client-go/1.4`.

### Reporting bugs

Please report bugs to the main Kubernetes [repository](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/new).

### Contributing code
Please send pull requests against the client packages in the Kubernetes main [repository](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes), and run the `/staging/src/k8s.io/client-go/copy.sh` script to update the staging area in the main repository. Changes in the staging area will be published to this repository every day.
