freeCodeCamp/curriculum/challenges/english/05-back-end-development-and-apis/basic-node-and-express/meet-the-node-console.md, before:

---
id: 587d7fb0367417b2b2512bed
title: Meet the Node console
challengeType: 2
forumTopicId: 301515
dashedName: meet-the-node-console
---

# --description--

Working on these challenges will involve you writing your code using one of the following methods:

- Clone <a href="https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/boilerplate-express/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">this GitHub repo</a> and complete these challenges locally.
- Use <a href="https://gitpod.io/?autostart=true#https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/boilerplate-express/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">our Gitpod starter project</a> to complete these challenges.
- Use a site builder of your choice to complete the project. Be sure to incorporate all the files from our GitHub repo.

During the development process, it is important to be able to check what’s going on in your code.

Node is just a JavaScript environment. Like client side JavaScript, you can use the console to display useful debug information. On your local machine, you would see console output in a terminal. On Gitpod, a terminal is open at the bottom of the editor by default.

We recommend to keep the terminal open while working at these challenges. By reading the output in the terminal, you can see any errors that may occur.

# --instructions--

Modify the `myApp.js` file to log "Hello World" to the console.

# --hints--

`"Hello World"` should be in the console

```js
(getUserInput) =>
  $.get(getUserInput('url') + '/_api/hello-console').then(
    (data) => {
      assert.isTrue(data.passed, '"Hello World" is not in the server console');
    },
    (xhr) => {
      throw new Error(xhr.responseText);
    }
  );
```

# --solutions--

```js
/**
  Backend challenges don't need solutions, 
  because they would need to be tested against a full working project. 
  Please check our contributing guidelines to learn more.
*/
```

Commit message:

freeCodeCamp: fix(curriculum): add information about server restart (#54035)
Commit: 0daa2e193f97eb46f14845a3472f548bfc56af07

freeCodeCamp/curriculum/challenges/english/05-back-end-development-and-apis/basic-node-and-express/meet-the-node-console.md, after:

---
id: 587d7fb0367417b2b2512bed
title: Meet the Node console
challengeType: 2
forumTopicId: 301515
dashedName: meet-the-node-console
---

# --description--

Working on these challenges will involve you writing your code using one of the following methods:

- Clone <a href="https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/boilerplate-express/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">this GitHub repo</a> and complete these challenges locally.
- Use <a href="https://gitpod.io/?autostart=true#https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/boilerplate-express/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow">our Gitpod starter project</a> to complete these challenges.
- Use a site builder of your choice to complete the project. Be sure to incorporate all the files from our GitHub repo.

During the development process, it is important to be able to check what’s going on in your code.

Node is just a JavaScript environment. Like client side JavaScript, you can use the console to display useful debug information. On your local machine, you would see console output in a terminal. On Gitpod, a terminal is open at the bottom of the editor by default.

We recommend to keep the terminal open while working at these challenges. By reading the output in the terminal, you can see any errors that may occur.

The server must be restarted after making changes to its files.

You can stop the server from the terminal using `Ctrl + C` and start it using Node directly (`node mainEntryFile.js`) or using a run script in the `package.json` file with `npm run`.

For example, the `"start": "node server.js"` script would be run from the terminal using `npm run start`.

To implement server auto restarting on file save Node provides the `--watch` flag you can add to your start script `"start": "node --watch server.js"` or you can install an npm package like `nodemon`. We will leave this to you as an exercise.

# --instructions--

Modify the `myApp.js` file to log "Hello World" to the console.

# --hints--

`"Hello World"` should be in the console

```js
(getUserInput) =>
  $.get(getUserInput('url') + '/_api/hello-console').then(
    (data) => {
      assert.isTrue(data.passed, '"Hello World" is not in the server console');
    },
    (xhr) => {
      throw new Error(xhr.responseText);
    }
  );
```

# --solutions--

```js
/**
  Backend challenges don't need solutions, 
  because they would need to be tested against a full working project. 
  Please check our contributing guidelines to learn more.
*/
```
